docs/concepts/overview.mdx, before:

# How Hyperstack Works

Hyperstack is a declarative data layer for Solana. You define the data shape you need, and Hyperstack handles all the infrastructure to stream it to your app in real-time.

---

## The Problem

Building data pipelines for Solana apps is painful:

1. **Manual parsing** - You write custom code to decode accounts and instructions
2. **ETL complexity** - You build pipelines to transform, aggregate, and store data
3. **RPC overhead** - You manage websocket connections, retries, and state sync
4. **Type mismatches** - On-chain types don't match your app types

Most teams spend weeks on infrastructure before shipping features.

---

## The Hyperstack Solution

Instead of building infrastructure, you **declare what data you need**:

```rust
#[entity(name = "Token")]
pub struct Token {
    #[from_instruction(Create::mint, primary_key)]
    pub mint: String,
    
    #[map(BondingCurve::virtual_sol_reserves)]
    pub sol_reserves: u64,
    
    #[aggregate(from = Buy, field = amount, strategy = Sum)]
    pub total_volume: u64,
}
```

Hyperstack then:
- Subscribes to the relevant on-chain events
- Transforms raw data into your entity shape
- Streams updates to your app in real-time
- Generates type-safe SDKs for your frontend

---

## Architecture Overview

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    YOUR SPEC                            │
│  (Rust macros defining entities, mappings, aggregates)  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                          ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   HYPERSTACK CLOUD                       │
│                                                          │
│   ┌────────────┐    ┌────────────┐    ┌────────────┐    │
│   │  Compiler  │ →  │     VM     │ →  │  Streamer  │    │
│   └────────────┘    └────────────┘    └────────────┘    │
│         ↑                 ↑                  ↓          │
│    AST Bytecode     State Tables      WebSocket         │
│                                                          │
│   ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│   │              Yellowstone gRPC                     │  │
│   │         (Real-time Solana data feed)             │  │
│   └──────────────────────────────────────────────────┘  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                          ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     YOUR APP                            │
│                                                          │
│   const { data } = stack.views.tokens.list.use()        │
│                                                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Key Concepts

### 1. Streams

A **stream** is a declarative definition of your data model. Written in Rust using macros:

```rust
#[hyperstack(idl = "parser/idl.json")]
pub mod my_stream {
    #[entity(name = "Token")]
    pub struct Token {
        // Entity fields with mappings...
    }
}
```

The stream defines:
- **Entities** - The data structures you want
- **Mappings** - How on-chain data maps to fields
- **Aggregations** - How to compute derived values
- **Events** - Which instructions to capture

### 2. Entities

An **entity** is a structured object representing on-chain state. Each entity has:

- **Primary key** - Unique identifier (usually a pubkey)
- **Fields** - Data attributes with population strategies
- **Sections** - Logical groupings of fields

```rust
#[entity(name = "Token")]
pub struct Token {
    pub id: TokenId,       // Primary key section
    pub info: TokenInfo,   // Metadata section
    pub trading: Trading,  // Metrics section
}
```

### 3. Mappings

**Mappings** define how on-chain data flows into entity fields:

| Mapping Type | Source | Example |
|--------------|--------|---------|
| `#[map]` | Account field | `#[map(BondingCurve::reserves)]` |
| `#[from_instruction]` | Instruction arg/account | `#[from_instruction(Create::mint)]` |
| `#[snapshot]` | Account snapshot | `#[snapshot(from = Account)]` |
| `#[derive_from]` | Derive from instruction | `#[derive_from(from = Buy, field = user)]` |
| `#[aggregate]` | Computed from events | `#[aggregate(from = Buy, strategy = Sum)]` |
| `#[event]` | Captured instruction | `#[event(strategy = Append)]` |
| `#[computed]` | Derived from fields | `#[computed(field_a + field_b)]` |

### 4. Population Strategies

**Strategies** control how field values are updated:

| Strategy | Behavior |
|----------|----------|
| `SetOnce` | Set once, never overwrite |
| `LastWrite` | Always use latest value |
| `Append` | Collect into array |
| `Sum` | Running total |
| `Count` | Event counter |
| `UniqueCount` | Count unique values |
| `Max` / `Min` | Track extremes |

### 5. Stacks

A **stack** is the client-side interface to your deployed stream. It provides:

- **Views** - Real-time data subscriptions
- **Transactions** - Instruction builders
- **Helpers** - Utility functions

```typescript
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: 'my-tokens',
  views: {
    tokens: {
      list: createListView<Token>('Token/list'),
      state: createStateView<Token>('Token/state'),
    }
  }
});
```

---

## Data Flow

### Specification Time

1. Write stream definition using Rust macros
2. Build generates AST (`.hyperstack/*.ast.json`)
3. Deploy with `hs up`
4. Cloud compiles AST to bytecode

### Runtime

1. Solana events arrive via Yellowstone gRPC
2. VM routes events to handlers
3. Handlers execute bytecode:
   - Extract fields from events
   - Resolve primary keys
   - Apply mappings and transforms
   - Update state tables
4. Changes stream to connected clients

### Client

1. Connect to WebSocket
2. Subscribe to views
3. Receive real-time updates
4. UI components update automatically (React) or stream yields items (Rust)

---

## View Modes

Views define how you access entity data:

| Mode | Path | Returns | Use Case |
|------|------|---------|----------|
| `state` | `Entity/state` | Single entity | Get by key |
| `list` | `Entity/list` | Array of entities | All entities, key lookups |

```typescript
// List - all tokens as array
const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use()

// State - single token by key
const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key: mintAddress })
```

---

## Type Safety

Hyperstack provides end-to-end type safety:

1. **Spec types** - Rust ensures valid mappings at compile time
2. **Generated types** - SDK types match your entity definitions
3. **Runtime types** - Data arrives pre-shaped, no parsing needed

```typescript
// TypeScript knows token.mint is string, token.volume is bigint
const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key })
console.log(token.mint)    // string
console.log(token.volume)  // bigint
```

---

## Self-Hosting vs Managed

| Aspect | Self-Hosted | Managed (Hyperstack Cloud) |
|--------|-------------|---------------------------|
| Setup | Bring your own Geyser gRPC | Zero config |
| Scaling | You manage | We handle |
| Cost | Infrastructure only | Subscription + bandwidth |
| Best for | Single stream, experimentation | Production apps |

---

## SDK Examples

### TypeScript/React

```tsx
const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();
```

### Rust

```rust
// Lazy streams with chainable operators
let mut alerts = hs.watch_rich::<TokenEntity>()
    .filter(|u| watchlist.contains(u.key()))
    .filter_map(|update| match update {
        RichUpdate::Updated { before, after, .. } => {
            let change = calculate_change(&before, &after);
            (change.abs() > 5.0).then_some(Alert { token: after, change })
        }
        _ => None,
    });

while let Some(alert) = alerts.next().await {
    println!("Price alert: {} changed {}%", alert.token.name, alert.change);
}
```

---

## Next Steps

- [React Quickstart](/quickstart/react) - Build your first React app
- [Rust SDK](https://github.com/HyperTekOrg/hyperstack/tree/main/rust/hyperstack-sdk) - Rust client documentation
- [Stack API](/concepts/stack-api) - Client-side API reference (TypeScript)
- [CLI Commands](/cli/commands) - Deployment and management

Commit message:

docs: Update existing documentation content for restructured organization
Consolidates and updates existing documentation pages, removes deprecated SDK overview pages (now in unified SDK docs), and reorganizes content to align with new documentation structure.

Ultraworked with [Sisyphus](https://github.com/code-yeongyu/oh-my-opencode)

Co-authored-by: Sisyphus <clio-agent@sisyphuslabs.ai>

docs/concepts/overview.mdx, after:

# How Hyperstack Works

Hyperstack is a declarative data layer for Solana. You define the data shape you need, and Hyperstack handles all the infrastructure to stream it to your app.

---

## The Problem

Building data pipelines for Solana apps is painful:

1. **Manual parsing** - You write custom code to decode accounts and instructions
2. **ETL complexity** - You build pipelines to transform, aggregate, and store data
3. **RPC overhead** - You manage websocket connections, retries, and state sync
4. **Type mismatches** - On-chain types don't match your app types

Most teams spend weeks on infrastructure before shipping features.

---

## The Hyperstack Solution

Instead of building infrastructure, you **declare what data you need**:

```rust
#[entity(name = "Token")]
pub struct Token {
    #[from_instruction(Create::mint, primary_key)]
    pub mint: String,
    
    #[map(BondingCurve::virtual_sol_reserves)]
    pub sol_reserves: u64,
    
    #[aggregate(from = Buy, field = amount, strategy = Sum)]
    pub total_volume: u64,
}
```

Hyperstack then:
- Subscribes to the relevant on-chain events
- Transforms raw data into your entity shape
- Streams updates to your app as they happen on-chain
- Generates type-safe SDKs for your frontend

---

## Architecture Overview

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    YOUR SPEC                            │
│  (Rust macros defining entities, mappings, aggregates)  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                          ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   HYPERSTACK CLOUD                       │
│                                                          │
│   ┌────────────┐    ┌────────────┐    ┌────────────┐    │
│   │  Compiler  │ →  │     VM     │ →  │  Streamer  │    │
│   └────────────┘    └────────────┘    └────────────┘    │
│         ↑                 ↑                  ↓          │
│    AST Bytecode     State Tables      WebSocket         │
│                                                          │
│   ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│   │              Yellowstone gRPC                     │  │
│   │         (Real-time Solana data feed)             │  │
│   └──────────────────────────────────────────────────┘  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                          ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     YOUR APP                            │
│                                                          │
│   const { data } = stack.views.tokens.list.use()        │
│                                                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Key Concepts

### 1. Streams

A **stream** is a declarative definition of your data model. Written in Rust using macros:

```rust
#[hyperstack(idl = "parser/idl.json")]
pub mod my_stream {
    #[entity(name = "Token")]
    pub struct Token {
        // Entity fields with mappings...
    }
}
```

The stream defines:
- **Entities** - The data structures you want
- **Mappings** - How on-chain data maps to fields
- **Aggregations** - How to compute derived values
- **Events** - Which instructions to capture

### 2. Entities

An **entity** is a structured object representing on-chain state. Each entity has:

- **Primary key** - Unique identifier (usually a pubkey)
- **Fields** - Data attributes with population strategies
- **Sections** - Logical groupings of fields

```rust
#[entity(name = "Token")]
pub struct Token {
    pub id: TokenId,       // Primary key section
    pub info: TokenInfo,   // Metadata section
    pub trading: Trading,  // Metrics section
}
```

### 3. Mappings

**Mappings** define how on-chain data flows into entity fields:

| Mapping Type | Source | Example |
|--------------|--------|---------|
| `#[map]` | Account field | `#[map(BondingCurve::reserves)]` |
| `#[from_instruction]` | Instruction arg/account | `#[from_instruction(Create::mint)]` |
| `#[snapshot]` | Account snapshot | `#[snapshot(from = Account)]` |
| `#[derive_from]` | Derive from instruction | `#[derive_from(from = Buy, field = user)]` |
| `#[aggregate]` | Computed from events | `#[aggregate(from = Buy, strategy = Sum)]` |
| `#[event]` | Captured instruction | `#[event(strategy = Append)]` |
| `#[computed]` | Derived from fields | `#[computed(field_a + field_b)]` |

### 4. Population Strategies

**Strategies** control how field values are updated:

| Strategy | Behavior |
|----------|----------|
| `SetOnce` | Set once, never overwrite |
| `LastWrite` | Always use latest value |
| `Append` | Collect into array |
| `Sum` | Running total |
| `Count` | Event counter |
| `UniqueCount` | Count unique values |
| `Max` / `Min` | Track extremes |

### 5. Stacks

A **stack** is the client-side interface to your deployed stream. It provides:

- **Views** - Live data subscriptions
- **Transactions** - Instruction builders
- **Helpers** - Utility functions

```typescript
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: 'my-tokens',
  views: {
    tokens: {
      list: createListView<Token>('Token/list'),
      state: createStateView<Token>('Token/state'),
    }
  }
});
```

---

## Data Flow

### Specification Time

1. Write stream definition using Rust macros
2. Build generates AST (`.hyperstack/*.ast.json`)
3. Deploy with `hs up`
4. Cloud compiles AST to bytecode

### Runtime

1. Solana events arrive via Yellowstone gRPC
2. VM routes events to handlers
3. Handlers execute bytecode:
   - Extract fields from events
   - Resolve primary keys
   - Apply mappings and transforms
   - Update state tables
4. Changes stream to connected clients

### Client

1. Connect to WebSocket
2. Subscribe to views
3. Receive live updates
4. UI components update automatically (React) or stream yields items (Rust)

---

## View Modes

Views define how you access entity data:

| Mode | Path | Returns | Use Case |
|------|------|---------|----------|
| `state` | `Entity/state` | Single entity | Get by key |
| `list` | `Entity/list` | Array of entities | All entities, key lookups |

```typescript
// List - all tokens as array
const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use()

// State - single token by key
const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key: mintAddress })
```

---

## Type Safety

Hyperstack provides end-to-end type safety:

1. **Spec types** - Rust ensures valid mappings at compile time
2. **Generated types** - SDK types match your entity definitions
3. **Runtime types** - Data arrives pre-shaped, no parsing needed

```typescript
// TypeScript knows token.mint is string, token.volume is bigint
const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key })
console.log(token.mint)    // string
console.log(token.volume)  // bigint
```

---

## Self-Hosting vs Managed

| Aspect | Self-Hosted | Managed (Hyperstack Cloud) |
|--------|-------------|---------------------------|
| Setup | Bring your own Geyser gRPC | Zero config |
| Scaling | You manage | We handle |
| Cost | Infrastructure only | Subscription + bandwidth |
| Best for | Single stream, experimentation | Production apps |

---

## SDK Examples

### TypeScript/React

```tsx
const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();
```

### Rust

```rust
// Lazy streams with chainable operators
let mut alerts = hs.watch_rich::<TokenEntity>()
    .filter(|u| watchlist.contains(u.key()))
    .filter_map(|update| match update {
        RichUpdate::Updated { before, after, .. } => {
            let change = calculate_change(&before, &after);
            (change.abs() > 5.0).then_some(Alert { token: after, change })
        }
        _ => None,
    });

while let Some(alert) = alerts.next().await {
    println!("Price alert: {} changed {}%", alert.token.name, alert.change);
}
```

---

## Next Steps

- [Quickstart](/using-stacks/quickstart) - Scaffold a working app in under 2 minutes
- [React SDK](/sdks/react/) - Build a complete React app
- [TypeScript SDK](/sdks/typescript/) - Framework-agnostic SDK
- [Rust SDK](/sdks/rust/) - Native Rust client
- [Stack API](/concepts/stack-api) - Client-side API reference
- [CLI Commands](/cli/commands) - Deployment and management
