docs/src/content/docs/sdks/python/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Python SDK
description: Reference for the HyperStack Python SDK.
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Aside } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

<Aside type="caution" title="Work in Progress">
  The Python SDK is under active development and is currently in alpha. Features
  and APIs are subject to change before the stable 1.0 release.
</Aside>

The HyperStack Python SDK provides an `asyncio`-based client for streaming real-time Solana program data into your Python applications. It's designed for data science, backend services, and automation scripts that require live state updates.

## Installation

The Python SDK is not yet published to PyPI. To use it, you must install it from the source repository.

### From Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/HyperTekOrg/hyperstack.git
cd hyperstack/python/hyperstack-sdk

# Install in editable mode
pip install -e .
```

**Requirements:**

- Python 3.9+
- `websockets` library (installed automatically)

## Quick Start

The following example connects to a HyperStack server and subscribes to a list view.

```python
import asyncio
from hyperstack import HyperStackClient

async def main():
    # Use the async context manager for automatic connection/disconnection
    async with HyperStackClient("wss://your-hyperstack-server.com") as client:
        # Subscribe to a view
        store = client.subscribe("SettlementGame/list")

        print("Subscribed, waiting for updates...")

        # Iterating over the store yields updates as they arrive
        async for update in store:
            print(f"Key: {update.key}, Data: {update.data}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## Client API

### `HyperStackClient`

The main entry point for the SDK. It manages the WebSocket connection and subscription routing.

#### Constructor

```python
client = HyperStackClient(
    url="wss://...",
    reconnect_intervals=[1, 2, 4, 8, 16],
    ping_interval=15,
    on_connect=None,
    on_disconnect=None,
    on_error=None
)
```

- **`url`**: The WebSocket URL of the HyperStack server.
- **`reconnect_intervals`**: A list of seconds to wait between reconnection attempts.
- **`ping_interval`**: Seconds between WebSocket pings to keep the connection alive.
- **`on_connect` / `on_disconnect`**: Async callbacks triggered on connection state changes.

#### Methods

- **`await connect()`**: Manually open the connection.
- **`await disconnect()`**: Manually close the connection.
- **`subscribe(view, key=None, parser=None)`**: Creates a new subscription and returns a `Store`.

## Subscriptions & Stores

When you subscribe to a view, the client returns a `Store` object. The `Store` maintains the local state and provides an async iterator for updates.

### Subscription Modes

HyperStack uses suffixes in the view name to determine how data is managed:

| Mode       | Suffix    | Description                               |
| :--------- | :-------- | :---------------------------------------- |
| **State**  | `/state`  | Single-ton state projection.              |
| **List**   | `/list`   | Key-value storage for entities. (Default) |
| **Append** | `/append` | Write-only stream of events.              |

```python
# Example: Subscribing to a list view
event_store = client.subscribe("GameEvents/append")
```

### The `Store` Class

The `Store` provides several ways to access data:

1.  **Async Iteration**: `async for update in store:` yields `Update` objects.
2.  **Synchronous Get**: `store.get(key=None)` returns the current value for a key without waiting.
3.  **Asynchronous Get**: `await store.get_async(key=None)` (Planned: will wait for initial data).

```python
async for update in store:
    # update.key is the string identifier
    # update.data is the parsed data (Dict or Custom Type)
    print(update.data)
```

## Custom Parsers

By default, `update.data` is a raw dictionary parsed from JSON. You can provide a custom parser function to transform this into typed objects (e.g., Dataclasses or Pydantic models).

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from typing import Dict, Any

@dataclass
class GameState:
    score: int
    active: bool

def parse_game_state(data: Dict[str, Any]) -> GameState:
    return GameState(
        score=data.get("score", 0),
        active=data.get("active", False)
    )

# The store will now yield GameState objects
store = client.subscribe("Game/state", parser=parse_game_state)

async for update in store:
    game: GameState = update.data
    print(f"Current Score: {game.score}")
```

## Error Handling

The SDK provides specific exception types for different failure modes:

```python
from hyperstack import HyperStackError, ConnectionError, SubscriptionError

try:
    async with HyperStackClient(url) as client:
        # ...
except ConnectionError:
    print("Failed to connect to server")
except HyperStackError as e:
    print(f"An error occurred: {e}")
```

Commit message:

docs: sync documentation with recent feature changes
- CLI: remove deprecated logs commands, add --dry-run, --completions, --verbose flags
- SDKs: document configurable store size limits with LRU eviction (maxEntriesPerView)

docs/src/content/docs/sdks/python/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Python SDK
description: Reference for the HyperStack Python SDK.
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Aside } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

<Aside type="caution" title="Work in Progress">
  The Python SDK is under active development and is currently in alpha. Features
  and APIs are subject to change before the stable 1.0 release.
</Aside>

The HyperStack Python SDK provides an `asyncio`-based client for streaming real-time Solana program data into your Python applications. It's designed for data science, backend services, and automation scripts that require live state updates.

## Installation

The Python SDK is not yet published to PyPI. To use it, you must install it from the source repository.

### From Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/HyperTekOrg/hyperstack.git
cd hyperstack/python/hyperstack-sdk

# Install in editable mode
pip install -e .
```

**Requirements:**

- Python 3.9+
- `websockets` library (installed automatically)

## Quick Start

The following example connects to a HyperStack server and subscribes to a list view.

```python
import asyncio
from hyperstack import HyperStackClient

async def main():
    # Use the async context manager for automatic connection/disconnection
    async with HyperStackClient("wss://your-hyperstack-server.com") as client:
        # Subscribe to a view
        store = client.subscribe("SettlementGame/list")

        print("Subscribed, waiting for updates...")

        # Iterating over the store yields updates as they arrive
        async for update in store:
            print(f"Key: {update.key}, Data: {update.data}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## Client API

### `HyperStackClient`

The main entry point for the SDK. It manages the WebSocket connection and subscription routing.

#### Constructor

```python
client = HyperStackClient(
    url="wss://...",
    reconnect_intervals=[1, 2, 4, 8, 16],
    ping_interval=15,
    max_entries=10000,
    on_connect=None,
    on_disconnect=None,
    on_error=None
)
```

- **`url`**: The WebSocket URL of the HyperStack server.
- **`reconnect_intervals`**: A list of seconds to wait between reconnection attempts.
- **`ping_interval`**: Seconds between WebSocket pings to keep the connection alive.
- **`max_entries`**: Maximum entries per store before LRU eviction (default: 10,000). Set to `None` for unlimited (not recommended for long-running clients).
- **`on_connect` / `on_disconnect`**: Async callbacks triggered on connection state changes.

#### Methods

- **`await connect()`**: Manually open the connection.
- **`await disconnect()`**: Manually close the connection.
- **`subscribe(view, key=None, parser=None)`**: Creates a new subscription and returns a `Store`.

## Subscriptions & Stores

When you subscribe to a view, the client returns a `Store` object. The `Store` maintains the local state and provides an async iterator for updates.

### Subscription Modes

HyperStack uses suffixes in the view name to determine how data is managed:

| Mode       | Suffix    | Description                               |
| :--------- | :-------- | :---------------------------------------- |
| **State**  | `/state`  | Single-ton state projection.              |
| **List**   | `/list`   | Key-value storage for entities. (Default) |
| **Append** | `/append` | Write-only stream of events.              |

```python
# Example: Subscribing to a list view
event_store = client.subscribe("GameEvents/append")
```

### The `Store` Class

The `Store` provides several ways to access data:

1.  **Async Iteration**: `async for update in store:` yields `Update` objects.
2.  **Synchronous Get**: `store.get(key=None)` returns the current value for a key without waiting.
3.  **Asynchronous Get**: `await store.get_async(key=None)` (Planned: will wait for initial data).

```python
async for update in store:
    # update.key is the string identifier
    # update.data is the parsed data (Dict or Custom Type)
    print(update.data)
```

## Custom Parsers

By default, `update.data` is a raw dictionary parsed from JSON. You can provide a custom parser function to transform this into typed objects (e.g., Dataclasses or Pydantic models).

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from typing import Dict, Any

@dataclass
class GameState:
    score: int
    active: bool

def parse_game_state(data: Dict[str, Any]) -> GameState:
    return GameState(
        score=data.get("score", 0),
        active=data.get("active", False)
    )

# The store will now yield GameState objects
store = client.subscribe("Game/state", parser=parse_game_state)

async for update in store:
    game: GameState = update.data
    print(f"Current Score: {game.score}")
```

## Error Handling

The SDK provides specific exception types for different failure modes:

```python
from hyperstack import HyperStackError, ConnectionError, SubscriptionError

try:
    async with HyperStackClient(url) as client:
        # ...
except ConnectionError:
    print("Failed to connect to server")
except HyperStackError as e:
    print(f"An error occurred: {e}")
```
