docs/src/content/docs/concepts/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: How Hyperstack Works
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

Hyperstack is a declarative data layer for Solana. You define the data shape you need, and Hyperstack handles all the infrastructure to stream it to your app in real-time.

---

## The Problem

Building data pipelines for Solana apps is painful:

1. **Manual parsing** - You write custom code to decode accounts and instructions
2. **ETL complexity** - You build pipelines to transform, aggregate, and store data
3. **RPC overhead** - You manage websocket connections, retries, and state sync
4. **Type mismatches** - On-chain types don't match your app types

Most teams spend weeks on infrastructure before shipping features.

---

## The Hyperstack Solution

Instead of building infrastructure, you **declare what data you need**:

```rust
#[entity(name = "Token")]
pub struct Token {
    #[from_instruction(Create::mint, primary_key)]
    pub mint: String,

    #[map(BondingCurve::virtual_sol_reserves)]
    pub sol_reserves: u64,

    #[aggregate(from = Buy, field = amount, strategy = Sum)]
    pub total_volume: u64,
}
```

Hyperstack then:

- Subscribes to the relevant on-chain events
- Transforms raw data into your entity shape
- Streams updates to your app in real-time
- Generates type-safe SDKs for your frontend

---

## Architecture Overview

```
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    YOUR SPEC                                 |
|  (Rust macros defining entities, mappings, aggregates)       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
                          |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                   HYPERSTACK CLOUD                           |
|                                                              |
|   +------------+    +------------+    +------------+         |
|   |  Compiler  | -> |     VM     | -> |  Streamer  |         |
|   +------------+    +------------+    +------------+         |
|         ^                 ^                  |               |
|    AST Bytecode     State Tables      WebSocket              |
|                                                              |
|   +----------------------------------------------------+    |
|   |              Yellowstone gRPC                       |    |
|   |         (Real-time Solana data feed)                |    |
|   +----------------------------------------------------+    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
                          |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                     YOUR APP                                 |
|                                                              |
|   const { data } = stack.views.tokens.list.use()            |
|                                                              |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
```

---

## Key Concepts

### 1. Streams

A **stream** is a declarative definition of your data model. Written in Rust using macros:

```rust
#[hyperstack(idl = "parser/idl.json")]
pub mod my_stream {
    #[entity(name = "Token")]
    pub struct Token {
        // Entity fields with mappings...
    }
}
```

The stream defines:

- **Entities** - The data structures you want
- **Mappings** - How on-chain data maps to fields
- **Aggregations** - How to compute derived values
- **Events** - Which instructions to capture

### 2. Entities

An **entity** is a structured object representing on-chain state. Each entity has:

- **Primary key** - Unique identifier (usually a pubkey)
- **Fields** - Data attributes with population strategies
- **Sections** - Logical groupings of fields

```rust
#[entity(name = "Token")]
pub struct Token {
    pub id: TokenId,       // Primary key section
    pub info: TokenInfo,   // Metadata section
    pub trading: Trading,  // Metrics section
}
```

### 3. Mappings

**Mappings** define how on-chain data flows into entity fields:

| Mapping Type          | Source                  | Example                                    |
| --------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `#[map]`              | Account field           | `#[map(BondingCurve::reserves)]`           |
| `#[from_instruction]` | Instruction arg/account | `#[from_instruction(Create::mint)]`        |
| `#[snapshot]`         | Account snapshot        | `#[snapshot(from = Account)]`              |
| `#[derive_from]`      | Derive from instruction | `#[derive_from(from = Buy, field = user)]` |
| `#[aggregate]`        | Computed from events    | `#[aggregate(from = Buy, strategy = Sum)]` |
| `#[event]`            | Captured instruction    | `#[event(strategy = Append)]`              |
| `#[computed]`         | Derived from fields     | `#[computed(field_a + field_b)]`           |

### 4. Population Strategies

**Strategies** control how field values are updated:

| Strategy      | Behavior                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------- |
| `SetOnce`     | Set once, never overwrite |
| `LastWrite`   | Always use latest value   |
| `Append`      | Collect into array        |
| `Sum`         | Running total             |
| `Count`       | Event counter             |
| `UniqueCount` | Count unique values       |
| `Max` / `Min` | Track extremes            |

### 5. Stacks

A **stack** is the client-side interface to your spec. It provides:

- **Views** - Real-time data subscriptions
- **Transactions** - Instruction builders
- **Helpers** - Utility functions

```typescript
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "my-tokens",
  views: {
    tokens: {
      list: createListView<Token>("Token/list"),
      state: createStateView<Token>("Token/state"),
    },
  },
});
```

---

## Data Flow

### Specification Time

1. Write spec using Rust macros
2. Build generates AST (`.hyperstack/*.ast.json`)
3. Deploy with `hyperstack up`
4. Cloud compiles AST to bytecode

### Runtime

1. Solana events arrive via Yellowstone gRPC
2. VM routes events to handlers
3. Handlers execute bytecode:
   - Extract fields from events
   - Resolve primary keys
   - Apply mappings and transforms
   - Update state tables
4. Changes stream to connected clients

### Client

1. Connect to WebSocket
2. Subscribe to views
3. Receive real-time updates
4. React components re-render automatically

---

## View Modes

| Mode    | Path           | Returns           | Use Case      |
| ------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| `state` | `Entity/state` | Single entity     | Get by key    |
| `list`  | `Entity/list`  | Array of entities | All entities  |
| `kv`    | `Entity/kv`    | Key-value map     | Lookup by key |

```typescript
// List - all tokens as array
const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();

// State - single token by key
const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key: mintAddress });
```

---

## Type Safety

Hyperstack provides end-to-end type safety:

1. **Spec types** - Rust ensures valid mappings at compile time
2. **Generated types** - SDK types match your entity definitions
3. **Runtime types** - Data arrives pre-shaped, no parsing needed

```typescript
// TypeScript knows token.mint is string, token.volume is bigint
const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key });
console.log(token.mint); // string
console.log(token.volume); // bigint
```

---

## Self-Hosting vs Managed

| Aspect   | Self-Hosted                    | Managed (Hyperstack Cloud) |
| -------- | ------------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| Setup    | Bring your own Geyser gRPC     | Zero config                |
| Scaling  | You manage                     | We handle                  |
| Cost     | Infrastructure only            | Subscription + bandwidth   |
| Best for | Single stream, experimentation | Production apps            |

---

## Next Steps

- [React Quickstart](/getting-started/quickstart) - Build your first app
- [Stack API](/concepts/stack-api) - Client-side API reference
- [Creating Specs](/specs/overview) - Create custom data streams
- [CLI Commands](/cli/commands) - Deployment and management

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for stack terminology and new CLI commands
Update all documentation to use stack terminology:
- Replace 'spec' with 'stack' throughout
- Update CLI command references (hs spec -> hs stack, hs deploy -> hs stack)
- Update WebSocket URL domain from hypertek.app to usehyperstack.com
- Update cross-references to new stacks section

docs/src/content/docs/concepts/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: How Hyperstack Works
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

Hyperstack is a declarative data layer for Solana. You define the data shape you need, and Hyperstack handles all the infrastructure to stream it to your app in real-time.

---

## The Problem

Building data pipelines for Solana apps is painful:

1. **Manual parsing** - You write custom code to decode accounts and instructions
2. **ETL complexity** - You build pipelines to transform, aggregate, and store data
3. **RPC overhead** - You manage websocket connections, retries, and state sync
4. **Type mismatches** - On-chain types don't match your app types

Most teams spend weeks on infrastructure before shipping features.

---

## The Hyperstack Solution

Instead of building infrastructure, you **declare what data you need**:

```rust
#[entity(name = "Token")]
pub struct Token {
    #[from_instruction(Create::mint, primary_key)]
    pub mint: String,

    #[map(BondingCurve::virtual_sol_reserves)]
    pub sol_reserves: u64,

    #[aggregate(from = Buy, field = amount, strategy = Sum)]
    pub total_volume: u64,
}
```

Hyperstack then:

- Subscribes to the relevant on-chain events
- Transforms raw data into your entity shape
- Streams updates to your app in real-time
- Generates type-safe SDKs for your frontend

---

## Architecture Overview

```
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    YOUR SPEC                                 |
|  (Rust macros defining entities, mappings, aggregates)       |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
                          |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                   HYPERSTACK CLOUD                           |
|                                                              |
|   +------------+    +------------+    +------------+         |
|   |  Compiler  | -> |     VM     | -> |  Streamer  |         |
|   +------------+    +------------+    +------------+         |
|         ^                 ^                  |               |
|    AST Bytecode     State Tables      WebSocket              |
|                                                              |
|   +----------------------------------------------------+    |
|   |              Yellowstone gRPC                       |    |
|   |         (Real-time Solana data feed)                |    |
|   +----------------------------------------------------+    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
                          |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
|                     YOUR APP                                 |
|                                                              |
|   const { data } = stack.views.tokens.list.use()            |
|                                                              |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
```

---

## Key Concepts

### 1. Streams

A **stream** is a declarative definition of your data model. Written in Rust using macros:

```rust
#[hyperstack(idl = "parser/idl.json")]
pub mod my_stream {
    #[entity(name = "Token")]
    pub struct Token {
        // Entity fields with mappings...
    }
}
```

The stream defines:

- **Entities** - The data structures you want
- **Mappings** - How on-chain data maps to fields
- **Aggregations** - How to compute derived values
- **Events** - Which instructions to capture

### 2. Entities

An **entity** is a structured object representing on-chain state. Each entity has:

- **Primary key** - Unique identifier (usually a pubkey)
- **Fields** - Data attributes with population strategies
- **Sections** - Logical groupings of fields

```rust
#[entity(name = "Token")]
pub struct Token {
    pub id: TokenId,       // Primary key section
    pub info: TokenInfo,   // Metadata section
    pub trading: Trading,  // Metrics section
}
```

### 3. Mappings

**Mappings** define how on-chain data flows into entity fields:

| Mapping Type          | Source                  | Example                                    |
| --------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `#[map]`              | Account field           | `#[map(BondingCurve::reserves)]`           |
| `#[from_instruction]` | Instruction arg/account | `#[from_instruction(Create::mint)]`        |
| `#[snapshot]`         | Account snapshot        | `#[snapshot(from = Account)]`              |
| `#[derive_from]`      | Derive from instruction | `#[derive_from(from = Buy, field = user)]` |
| `#[aggregate]`        | Computed from events    | `#[aggregate(from = Buy, strategy = Sum)]` |
| `#[event]`            | Captured instruction    | `#[event(strategy = Append)]`              |
| `#[computed]`         | Derived from fields     | `#[computed(field_a + field_b)]`           |

### 4. Population Strategies

**Strategies** control how field values are updated:

| Strategy      | Behavior                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------- |
| `SetOnce`     | Set once, never overwrite |
| `LastWrite`   | Always use latest value   |
| `Append`      | Collect into array        |
| `Sum`         | Running total             |
| `Count`       | Event counter             |
| `UniqueCount` | Count unique values       |
| `Max` / `Min` | Track extremes            |

### 5. Stacks

A **stack** is the client-side interface to your deployed stream. It provides:

- **Views** - Real-time data subscriptions
- **Transactions** - Instruction builders
- **Helpers** - Utility functions

```typescript
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "my-tokens",
  views: {
    tokens: {
      list: createListView<Token>("Token/list"),
      state: createStateView<Token>("Token/state"),
    },
  },
});
```

---

## Data Flow

### Specification Time

1. Write stream definition using Rust macros
2. Build generates AST (`.hyperstack/*.ast.json`)
3. Deploy with `hs up`
4. Cloud compiles AST to bytecode

### Runtime

1. Solana events arrive via Yellowstone gRPC
2. VM routes events to handlers
3. Handlers execute bytecode:
   - Extract fields from events
   - Resolve primary keys
   - Apply mappings and transforms
   - Update state tables
4. Changes stream to connected clients

### Client

1. Connect to WebSocket
2. Subscribe to views
3. Receive real-time updates
4. React components re-render automatically

---

## View Modes

| Mode    | Path           | Returns           | Use Case      |
| ------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| `state` | `Entity/state` | Single entity     | Get by key    |
| `list`  | `Entity/list`  | Array of entities | All entities  |
| `kv`    | `Entity/kv`    | Key-value map     | Lookup by key |

```typescript
// List - all tokens as array
const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();

// State - single token by key
const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key: mintAddress });
```

---

## Type Safety

Hyperstack provides end-to-end type safety:

1. **Spec types** - Rust ensures valid mappings at compile time
2. **Generated types** - SDK types match your entity definitions
3. **Runtime types** - Data arrives pre-shaped, no parsing needed

```typescript
// TypeScript knows token.mint is string, token.volume is bigint
const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key });
console.log(token.mint); // string
console.log(token.volume); // bigint
```

---

## Self-Hosting vs Managed

| Aspect   | Self-Hosted                    | Managed (Hyperstack Cloud) |
| -------- | ------------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| Setup    | Bring your own Geyser gRPC     | Zero config                |
| Scaling  | You manage                     | We handle                  |
| Cost     | Infrastructure only            | Subscription + bandwidth   |
| Best for | Single stream, experimentation | Production apps            |

---

## Next Steps

- [React Quickstart](/getting-started/quickstart) - Build your first app
- [Stack API](/concepts/stack-api) - Client-side API reference
- [Creating Stacks](/stacks/overview) - Create custom data streams
- [CLI Commands](/cli/commands) - Deployment and management
