docs/src/content/docs/concepts/stack-api.mdx, before:

---
title: Stack API Reference
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

The Stack API is the client-side interface to your Hyperstack spec. It provides type-safe access to views, transactions, and helpers.

---

## Overview

```typescript
import {
  defineStack,
  useHyperstack,
  createListView,
  createStateView,
} from "hyperstack-react";

// 1. Define your stack
const MyStack = defineStack({
  name: "my-app",
  views: {
    /* view definitions */
  },
  transactions: {
    /* optional */
  },
  helpers: {
    /* optional */
  },
});

// 2. Use in components
function Component() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(MyStack);
  const { data } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();
}
```

---

## defineStack

Creates a typed stack definition.

```typescript
function defineStack<TViews, TTxs, THelpers>(definition: {
  name: string;
  views: TViews;
  transactions?: TTxs;
  helpers?: THelpers;
}): StackDefinition;
```

### Parameters

| Parameter      | Type     | Required | Description                             |
| -------------- | -------- | -------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `name`         | `string` | Yes      | Unique identifier for the stack         |
| `views`        | `object` | Yes      | View definitions grouped by entity      |
| `transactions` | `object` | No       | Transaction builders with refresh logic |
| `helpers`      | `object` | No       | Utility functions                       |

### Example

```typescript
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "token-tracker",

  views: {
    tokens: {
      list: createListView<Token>("Token/list"),
      state: createStateView<Token>("Token/state"),
    },
    trades: {
      recent: createListView<Trade>("Trade/list", {
        transform: (raw) => ({ ...raw, timestamp: new Date(raw.timestamp) }),
      }),
    },
  },

  transactions: {
    swap: {
      build: (params: { mint: string; amount: number }) => ({
        instruction: "swap",
        accounts: { mint: params.mint },
        data: { amount: params.amount },
      }),
      refresh: [{ view: "tokens/state", key: (p) => p.mint }],
    },
  },

  helpers: {
    formatPrice: (lamports: number) => (lamports / 1e9).toFixed(6) + " SOL",
    calculateMarketCap: (token: Token) => token.supply * token.price,
  },
});
```

---

## useHyperstack

Main hook that provides access to a stack's features.

```typescript
function useHyperstack<TStack>(stack: TStack): StackClient<TStack>;
```

### Return Value

```typescript
interface StackClient<TStack> {
  views: ViewInterface; // Real-time data subscriptions
  tx: TransactionMethods; // Transaction submission
  helpers: TStack["helpers"]; // Utility functions
  store: HyperstackStore; // Direct store access
  runtime: HyperstackRuntime; // Runtime instance
}
```

### Example

```typescript
function TokenDashboard() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  // Access views
  const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();

  // Access helpers
  const formatted = stack.helpers.formatPrice(1000000000);

  // Access transactions
  const { submit } = stack.tx.useMutation();

  return <div>{/* ... */}</div>;
}
```

---

## View Factory Functions

### createListView

Creates a view that returns entities as an array.

```typescript
function createListView<T>(
  viewPath: string,
  options?: ViewOptions<T>,
): ListViewDefinition<T>;
```

**Usage:**

```typescript
// Basic
const tokenList = createListView<Token>("Token/list");

// With transform
const tokenList = createListView<Token>("Token/list", {
  transform: (raw) => ({
    ...raw,
    priceFormatted: formatPrice(raw.price),
  }),
});
```

**In component:**

```typescript
const { data, isLoading, error, refresh } = stack.views.tokens.list.use({
  limit: 50,
  where: { volume: { gte: 1000 } },
});
// data: Token[] | undefined
```

### createStateView

Creates a view that returns a single entity by key.

```typescript
function createStateView<T>(
  viewPath: string,
  options?: ViewOptions<T>,
): StateViewDefinition<T>;
```

**Usage:**

```typescript
const tokenState = createStateView<Token>("Token/state");
```

**In component:**

```typescript
const { data, isLoading, error } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({
  key: mintAddress,
});
// data: Token | undefined
```

---

## View Options

```typescript
interface ViewOptions<T> {
  transform?: (data: any) => T;
}
```

| Option      | Description                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `transform` | Transform raw data before returning |

### Transform Examples

```typescript
// Convert bigint strings to BigInt
createListView<Token>("Token/list", {
  transform: (raw) => ({
    ...raw,
    supply: BigInt(raw.supply),
  }),
});

// Flatten nested data
createStateView<Token>("Token/state", {
  transform: (raw) => ({
    mint: raw.id.mint,
    name: raw.info.name,
    volume: raw.trading.total_volume,
  }),
});
```

---

## View Hook Return Values

### ListViewHookResult

```typescript
interface ListViewHookResult<T> {
  data: T[] | undefined; // Array of entities
  isLoading: boolean; // True while loading
  error?: Error; // Error if failed
  refresh: () => void; // Force refresh
}
```

### StateViewHookResult

```typescript
interface StateViewHookResult<T> {
  data: T | undefined; // Single entity
  isLoading: boolean;
  error?: Error;
  refresh: () => void;
}
```

---

## List Query Parameters

```typescript
interface ListParams {
  key?: string; // Filter by partition key
  where?: WhereClause; // Field filters
  limit?: number; // Max results
  filters?: Record<string, string>; // Additional filters
}

interface WhereClause {
  [field: string]: {
    eq?: any; // Equals
    gt?: any; // Greater than
    gte?: any; // Greater than or equal
    lt?: any; // Less than
    lte?: any; // Less than or equal
  };
}
```

### Query Examples

```typescript
// Limit results
stack.views.tokens.list.use({ limit: 10 });

// Filter by field
stack.views.tokens.list.use({
  where: { volume: { gte: 10000 } },
});

// Multiple conditions
stack.views.tokens.list.use({
  where: {
    volume: { gte: 10000 },
    created_at: { gt: Date.now() - 86400000 },
  },
  limit: 20,
});
```

---

## View Path Format

View paths follow the pattern: `{EntityName}/{mode}`

| Mode    | Returns             | Example       |
| ------- | ------------------- | ------------- |
| `list`  | `T[]`               | `Token/list`  |
| `state` | `T`                 | `Token/state` |
| `kv`    | `Record<string, T>` | `Token/kv`    |

The entity name must match your spec's `#[entity(name = "EntityName")]`.

---

## Transaction Definitions

```typescript
interface TransactionDefinition<TParams> {
  build: (params: TParams) => TransactionInstruction;
  refresh?: RefreshSpec[];
}

interface RefreshSpec {
  view: string;
  key?: string | ((params: any) => string);
}
```

### Example

```typescript
const MyStack = defineStack({
  name: "my-app",
  views: {
    /* ... */
  },
  transactions: {
    createToken: {
      build: (params: { name: string; symbol: string }) => ({
        instruction: "createToken",
        data: { name: params.name, symbol: params.symbol },
      }),
      // Refresh token list after transaction
      refresh: [{ view: "tokens/list" }],
    },

    updateToken: {
      build: (params: { mint: string; newName: string }) => ({
        instruction: "updateToken",
        accounts: { mint: params.mint },
        data: { name: params.newName },
      }),
      // Refresh specific token state
      refresh: [{ view: "tokens/state", key: (p) => p.mint }],
    },
  },
});
```

---

## useMutation Hook

Submit transactions with status tracking.

```typescript
interface UseMutationReturn {
  submit: (instruction: any) => Promise<string>;
  status: "idle" | "pending" | "success" | "error";
  error?: string;
  signature?: string;
  reset: () => void;
}
```

### Example

```typescript
function CreateTokenButton() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(MyStack);
  const { submit, status, error, signature } = stack.tx.useMutation();

  const handleCreate = async () => {
    const instruction = stack.transactions.createToken.build({
      name: 'My Token',
      symbol: 'MTK',
    });

    try {
      const sig = await submit(instruction);
      console.log('Transaction:', sig);
    } catch (e) {
      console.error('Failed:', e);
    }
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={handleCreate} disabled={status === 'pending'}>
        {status === 'pending' ? 'Creating...' : 'Create Token'}
      </button>
      {status === 'error' && <p>Error: {error}</p>}
      {status === 'success' && <p>Success: {signature}</p>}
    </div>
  );
}
```

---

## Helpers

Helpers are utility functions bundled with your stack.

```typescript
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "tokens",
  views: {
    /* ... */
  },
  helpers: {
    formatPrice: (lamports: number) => `${(lamports / 1e9).toFixed(6)} SOL`,
    formatSupply: (supply: bigint) => supply.toLocaleString(),
    calculatePrice: (token: Token) =>
      Number(token.sol_reserves) / Number(token.token_reserves),
  },
});
```

**Usage:**

```typescript
function TokenCard({ token }: { token: Token }) {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Price: {stack.helpers.formatPrice(token.price)}</p>
      <p>Supply: {stack.helpers.formatSupply(token.supply)}</p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

---

## Connection State

Monitor WebSocket connection status.

```typescript
import { useConnectionState } from 'hyperstack-react';

function ConnectionIndicator() {
  const state = useConnectionState();
  // 'disconnected' | 'connecting' | 'connected' | 'error' | 'reconnecting'

  const colors = {
    disconnected: 'gray',
    connecting: 'yellow',
    connected: 'green',
    error: 'red',
    reconnecting: 'orange',
  };

  return <span style={{ color: colors[state] }}>{state}</span>;
}
```

---

## TypeScript Integration

The Stack API is fully typed. TypeScript infers types from your stack definition:

```typescript
// Types are inferred from createListView<Token>
const { data } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();
// data: Token[] | undefined

// Helper types are preserved
const formatted = stack.helpers.formatPrice(1000);
// formatted: string (inferred from helper return type)

// Transaction params are typed
stack.transactions.createToken.build({
  name: "Test", // TypeScript knows this is required
  // symbol: missing - TypeScript error!
});
```

---

## Common Patterns

### Conditional Subscription

```typescript
function TokenDetail({ mint }: { mint: string | null }) {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  // Only subscribe when mint is available
  const { data } = stack.views.tokens.state.use(
    mint ? { key: mint } : undefined
  );

  if (!mint) return <p>Select a token</p>;
  if (!data) return <p>Loading...</p>;
  return <p>{data.name}</p>;
}
```

### Combining Multiple Views

```typescript
function Dashboard() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(MyStack);

  const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();
  const { data: stats } = stack.views.stats.state.use({ key: 'global' });

  const isLoading = !tokens || !stats;

  if (isLoading) return <Loading />;
  return <DashboardView tokens={tokens} stats={stats} />;
}
```

### Refresh on Demand

```typescript
function RefreshableList() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);
  const { data, refresh, isLoading } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={refresh} disabled={isLoading}>
        {isLoading ? 'Refreshing...' : 'Refresh'}
      </button>
      {data?.map(token => <TokenRow key={token.mint} token={token} />)}
    </div>
  );
}
```

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for stack terminology and new CLI commands
Update all documentation to use stack terminology:
- Replace 'spec' with 'stack' throughout
- Update CLI command references (hs spec -> hs stack, hs deploy -> hs stack)
- Update WebSocket URL domain from hypertek.app to usehyperstack.com
- Update cross-references to new stacks section

docs/src/content/docs/concepts/stack-api.mdx, after:

---
title: Stack API Reference
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

The Stack API is the client-side interface to your deployed Hyperstack stream. It provides type-safe access to views, transactions, and helpers.

---

## Overview

```typescript
import {
  defineStack,
  useHyperstack,
  createListView,
  createStateView,
} from "hyperstack-react";

// 1. Define your stack
const MyStack = defineStack({
  name: "my-app",
  views: {
    /* view definitions */
  },
  transactions: {
    /* optional */
  },
  helpers: {
    /* optional */
  },
});

// 2. Use in components
function Component() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(MyStack);
  const { data } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();
}
```

---

## defineStack

Creates a typed stack definition.

```typescript
function defineStack<TViews, TTxs, THelpers>(definition: {
  name: string;
  views: TViews;
  transactions?: TTxs;
  helpers?: THelpers;
}): StackDefinition;
```

### Parameters

| Parameter      | Type     | Required | Description                             |
| -------------- | -------- | -------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `name`         | `string` | Yes      | Unique identifier for the stack         |
| `views`        | `object` | Yes      | View definitions grouped by entity      |
| `transactions` | `object` | No       | Transaction builders with refresh logic |
| `helpers`      | `object` | No       | Utility functions                       |

### Example

```typescript
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "token-tracker",

  views: {
    tokens: {
      list: createListView<Token>("Token/list"),
      state: createStateView<Token>("Token/state"),
    },
    trades: {
      recent: createListView<Trade>("Trade/list", {
        transform: (raw) => ({ ...raw, timestamp: new Date(raw.timestamp) }),
      }),
    },
  },

  transactions: {
    swap: {
      build: (params: { mint: string; amount: number }) => ({
        instruction: "swap",
        accounts: { mint: params.mint },
        data: { amount: params.amount },
      }),
      refresh: [{ view: "tokens/state", key: (p) => p.mint }],
    },
  },

  helpers: {
    formatPrice: (lamports: number) => (lamports / 1e9).toFixed(6) + " SOL",
    calculateMarketCap: (token: Token) => token.supply * token.price,
  },
});
```

---

## useHyperstack

Main hook that provides access to a stack's features.

```typescript
function useHyperstack<TStack>(stack: TStack): StackClient<TStack>;
```

### Return Value

```typescript
interface StackClient<TStack> {
  views: ViewInterface; // Real-time data subscriptions
  tx: TransactionMethods; // Transaction submission
  helpers: TStack["helpers"]; // Utility functions
  store: HyperstackStore; // Direct store access
  runtime: HyperstackRuntime; // Runtime instance
}
```

### Example

```typescript
function TokenDashboard() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  // Access views
  const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();

  // Access helpers
  const formatted = stack.helpers.formatPrice(1000000000);

  // Access transactions
  const { submit } = stack.tx.useMutation();

  return <div>{/* ... */}</div>;
}
```

---

## View Factory Functions

### createListView

Creates a view that returns entities as an array.

```typescript
function createListView<T>(
  viewPath: string,
  options?: ViewOptions<T>,
): ListViewDefinition<T>;
```

**Usage:**

```typescript
// Basic
const tokenList = createListView<Token>("Token/list");

// With transform
const tokenList = createListView<Token>("Token/list", {
  transform: (raw) => ({
    ...raw,
    priceFormatted: formatPrice(raw.price),
  }),
});
```

**In component:**

```typescript
const { data, isLoading, error, refresh } = stack.views.tokens.list.use({
  limit: 50,
  where: { volume: { gte: 1000 } },
});
// data: Token[] | undefined
```

### createStateView

Creates a view that returns a single entity by key.

```typescript
function createStateView<T>(
  viewPath: string,
  options?: ViewOptions<T>,
): StateViewDefinition<T>;
```

**Usage:**

```typescript
const tokenState = createStateView<Token>("Token/state");
```

**In component:**

```typescript
const { data, isLoading, error } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({
  key: mintAddress,
});
// data: Token | undefined
```

---

## View Options

```typescript
interface ViewOptions<T> {
  transform?: (data: any) => T;
}
```

| Option      | Description                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `transform` | Transform raw data before returning |

### Transform Examples

```typescript
// Convert bigint strings to BigInt
createListView<Token>("Token/list", {
  transform: (raw) => ({
    ...raw,
    supply: BigInt(raw.supply),
  }),
});

// Flatten nested data
createStateView<Token>("Token/state", {
  transform: (raw) => ({
    mint: raw.id.mint,
    name: raw.info.name,
    volume: raw.trading.total_volume,
  }),
});
```

---

## View Hook Return Values

### ListViewHookResult

```typescript
interface ListViewHookResult<T> {
  data: T[] | undefined; // Array of entities
  isLoading: boolean; // True while loading
  error?: Error; // Error if failed
  refresh: () => void; // Force refresh
}
```

### StateViewHookResult

```typescript
interface StateViewHookResult<T> {
  data: T | undefined; // Single entity
  isLoading: boolean;
  error?: Error;
  refresh: () => void;
}
```

---

## List Query Parameters

```typescript
interface ListParams {
  key?: string; // Filter by partition key
  where?: WhereClause; // Field filters
  limit?: number; // Max results
  filters?: Record<string, string>; // Additional filters
}

interface WhereClause {
  [field: string]: {
    eq?: any; // Equals
    gt?: any; // Greater than
    gte?: any; // Greater than or equal
    lt?: any; // Less than
    lte?: any; // Less than or equal
  };
}
```

### Query Examples

```typescript
// Limit results
stack.views.tokens.list.use({ limit: 10 });

// Filter by field
stack.views.tokens.list.use({
  where: { volume: { gte: 10000 } },
});

// Multiple conditions
stack.views.tokens.list.use({
  where: {
    volume: { gte: 10000 },
    created_at: { gt: Date.now() - 86400000 },
  },
  limit: 20,
});
```

---

## View Path Format

View paths follow the pattern: `{EntityName}/{mode}`

| Mode    | Returns             | Example       |
| ------- | ------------------- | ------------- |
| `list`  | `T[]`               | `Token/list`  |
| `state` | `T`                 | `Token/state` |
| `kv`    | `Record<string, T>` | `Token/kv`    |

The entity name must match the `#[entity(name = "EntityName")]` in your Rust definition.

---

## Transaction Definitions

```typescript
interface TransactionDefinition<TParams> {
  build: (params: TParams) => TransactionInstruction;
  refresh?: RefreshSpec[];
}

interface RefreshSpec {
  view: string;
  key?: string | ((params: any) => string);
}
```

### Example

```typescript
const MyStack = defineStack({
  name: "my-app",
  views: {
    /* ... */
  },
  transactions: {
    createToken: {
      build: (params: { name: string; symbol: string }) => ({
        instruction: "createToken",
        data: { name: params.name, symbol: params.symbol },
      }),
      // Refresh token list after transaction
      refresh: [{ view: "tokens/list" }],
    },

    updateToken: {
      build: (params: { mint: string; newName: string }) => ({
        instruction: "updateToken",
        accounts: { mint: params.mint },
        data: { name: params.newName },
      }),
      // Refresh specific token state
      refresh: [{ view: "tokens/state", key: (p) => p.mint }],
    },
  },
});
```

---

## useMutation Hook

Submit transactions with status tracking.

```typescript
interface UseMutationReturn {
  submit: (instruction: any) => Promise<string>;
  status: "idle" | "pending" | "success" | "error";
  error?: string;
  signature?: string;
  reset: () => void;
}
```

### Example

```typescript
function CreateTokenButton() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(MyStack);
  const { submit, status, error, signature } = stack.tx.useMutation();

  const handleCreate = async () => {
    const instruction = stack.transactions.createToken.build({
      name: 'My Token',
      symbol: 'MTK',
    });

    try {
      const sig = await submit(instruction);
      console.log('Transaction:', sig);
    } catch (e) {
      console.error('Failed:', e);
    }
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={handleCreate} disabled={status === 'pending'}>
        {status === 'pending' ? 'Creating...' : 'Create Token'}
      </button>
      {status === 'error' && <p>Error: {error}</p>}
      {status === 'success' && <p>Success: {signature}</p>}
    </div>
  );
}
```

---

## Helpers

Helpers are utility functions bundled with your stack.

```typescript
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "tokens",
  views: {
    /* ... */
  },
  helpers: {
    formatPrice: (lamports: number) => `${(lamports / 1e9).toFixed(6)} SOL`,
    formatSupply: (supply: bigint) => supply.toLocaleString(),
    calculatePrice: (token: Token) =>
      Number(token.sol_reserves) / Number(token.token_reserves),
  },
});
```

**Usage:**

```typescript
function TokenCard({ token }: { token: Token }) {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Price: {stack.helpers.formatPrice(token.price)}</p>
      <p>Supply: {stack.helpers.formatSupply(token.supply)}</p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

---

## Connection State

Monitor WebSocket connection status.

```typescript
import { useConnectionState } from 'hyperstack-react';

function ConnectionIndicator() {
  const state = useConnectionState();
  // 'disconnected' | 'connecting' | 'connected' | 'error' | 'reconnecting'

  const colors = {
    disconnected: 'gray',
    connecting: 'yellow',
    connected: 'green',
    error: 'red',
    reconnecting: 'orange',
  };

  return <span style={{ color: colors[state] }}>{state}</span>;
}
```

---

## TypeScript Integration

The Stack API is fully typed. TypeScript infers types from your stack definition:

```typescript
// Types are inferred from createListView<Token>
const { data } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();
// data: Token[] | undefined

// Helper types are preserved
const formatted = stack.helpers.formatPrice(1000);
// formatted: string (inferred from helper return type)

// Transaction params are typed
stack.transactions.createToken.build({
  name: "Test", // TypeScript knows this is required
  // symbol: missing - TypeScript error!
});
```

---

## Common Patterns

### Conditional Subscription

```typescript
function TokenDetail({ mint }: { mint: string | null }) {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  // Only subscribe when mint is available
  const { data } = stack.views.tokens.state.use(
    mint ? { key: mint } : undefined
  );

  if (!mint) return <p>Select a token</p>;
  if (!data) return <p>Loading...</p>;
  return <p>{data.name}</p>;
}
```

### Combining Multiple Views

```typescript
function Dashboard() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(MyStack);

  const { data: tokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();
  const { data: stats } = stack.views.stats.state.use({ key: 'global' });

  const isLoading = !tokens || !stats;

  if (isLoading) return <Loading />;
  return <DashboardView tokens={tokens} stats={stats} />;
}
```

### Refresh on Demand

```typescript
function RefreshableList() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);
  const { data, refresh, isLoading } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={refresh} disabled={isLoading}>
        {isLoading ? 'Refreshing...' : 'Refresh'}
      </button>
      {data?.map(token => <TokenRow key={token.mint} token={token} />)}
    </div>
  );
}
```
