docs/src/content/docs/cli/commands.mdx, before:

---
title: CLI Command Reference
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

Complete reference for the Hyperstack CLI (`hs`).

---

## Global Options

| Option                  | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--config, -c <path>`   | Path to hyperstack.toml (default: `hyperstack.toml`)             |
| `--json`                | Output as JSON                                                   |
| `--verbose`             | Enable verbose output                                            |
| `--help, -h`            | Show help                                                        |
| `--version, -V`         | Show version                                                     |
| `--completions <SHELL>` | Generate shell completions (bash, zsh, fish, powershell, elvish) |

---

## Quick Reference

| Command                        | Description                          |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| `hyperstack-cli create [name]` | Scaffold a new app from a template   |
| `hs init`                      | Initialize a stack project           |
| `hs up [stack]`                | Deploy stack (push + build + deploy) |
| `hs push [stack]`              | Push stack to remote (alias)         |
| `hs status`                    | Show project overview                |
| `hs stack list`                | List all stacks                      |
| `hs stack show`                | Show stack details                   |
| `hs telemetry status`          | Show telemetry status                |

:::note[npm vs Cargo]
When installed via npm (`npm install -g hyperstack-cli`), the command is `hyperstack-cli`. When installed via Cargo (`cargo install hyperstack-cli`), the command is `hs`. Both are the same CLI.
:::

---

## Create a New App

### hyperstack-cli create [name]

Scaffold a new Hyperstack project from a template. This is the fastest way to get started.

```bash
# Interactive — prompts for name and template
npx hyperstack-cli create

# With project name
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app

# With specific template
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app --template react-ore
```

**Available templates:**

| Template         | Aliases                              | Description                               |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `react-ore`      | `ore-react`                          | ORE mining rounds viewer (React + Vite)   |
| `rust-ore`       | `ore-rust`                           | ORE mining rounds client (Rust + Tokio)   |
| `typescript-ore` | `ore-typescript`, `ts-ore`, `ore-ts` | ORE mining rounds client (TypeScript CLI) |

**Options:**

| Flag                | Description                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `--template <name>` | Skip interactive selection            |
| `--offline`         | Use cached templates only             |
| `--force-refresh`   | Clear template cache and re-download  |
| `--skip-install`    | Don't run `npm install` automatically |

Templates are downloaded from GitHub releases and cached in `~/.hyperstack/templates/`.

---

## Project Setup

### hs init

Initialize a new Hyperstack project.

```bash
hs init
```

Creates `hyperstack.toml` with auto-discovered stacks from `.hyperstack/*.ast.json`.

### hs config validate

Validate your configuration.

```bash
hs config validate
```

---

## Authentication

Hyperstack is currently in closed beta. Contact us to receive an API key.

### hs auth login

Save your API key to authenticate.

```bash
# Interactive — prompts for API key
hs auth login

# Or pass directly
hs auth login --key <your-api-key>
```

**Options:**

| Flag        | Description                       |
| ----------- | --------------------------------- |
| `--key, -k` | API key (prompts if not provided) |

### hs auth logout

Remove stored credentials.

```bash
hs auth logout
```

### hs auth status

Check local authentication status.

```bash
hs auth status
```

### hs auth whoami

Verify authentication with server.

```bash
hs auth whoami
```

**Credentials location:** `~/.hyperstack/credentials.toml`

---

## Deployment

### hs up [stack-name]

Deploy a stack: push, build, and deploy in one command.

```bash
# Deploy all stacks
hs up

# Deploy specific stack
hs up my-stack

# Deploy to branch
hs up my-stack --branch staging
# Creates: my-stack-staging.stack.usehyperstack.com

# Preview deployment
hs up my-stack --preview

# Preview what would be deployed (no actual deployment)
hs up my-stack --dry-run
```

**Options:**

| Flag                  | Description                                   |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `--branch, -b <name>` | Deploy to named branch                        |
| `--preview`           | Create preview deployment                     |
| `--dry-run`           | Show what would be deployed without deploying |

### hs status

Show overview of all stacks, builds, and deployments.

```bash
hs status
hs status --json
```

---

## Stack Management

### hs stack list

List all stacks with their deployment status.

```bash
hs stack list
hs stack list --json
```

**Output:**

```
STACK              STATUS     VERSION  URL
settlement-game    active     v3       wss://settlement-game.stack.usehyperstack.com
token-tracker      active     v1       wss://token-tracker.stack.usehyperstack.com
```

### hs stack push [stack-name]

Push local stacks to remote.

```bash
# Push all stacks
hs stack push

# Push specific stack
hs stack push my-stack
```

### hs stack show \<stack-name\>

Show detailed stack information including deployment status and versions.

```bash
hs stack show my-stack
hs stack show my-stack --version 3
hs stack show my-stack -v 3
```

**Options:**

| Flag                | Description                   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `--version, -v <n>` | Show specific version details |

**Output includes:**

- Entity information
- Deployment status and URL
- Latest version details
- Recent builds

### hs stack versions \<stack-name\>

Show version history.

```bash
hs stack versions my-stack
hs stack versions my-stack --limit 10
hs stack versions my-stack -l 10
```

**Options:**

| Flag              | Description                              |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `--limit, -l <n>` | Maximum number of versions (default: 20) |

### hs stack delete \<stack-name\>

Delete a stack from remote.

```bash
hs stack delete my-stack
hs stack delete my-stack --force  # Skip confirmation
hs stack delete my-stack -f
```

**Options:**

| Flag          | Description              |
| ------------- | ------------------------ |
| `--force, -f` | Skip confirmation prompt |

### hs stack rollback \<stack-name\>

Rollback to a previous deployment.

```bash
# Rollback to previous version
hs stack rollback my-stack

# Rollback to specific version
hs stack rollback my-stack --to 2

# Rollback to specific build
hs stack rollback my-stack --build 123

# Rollback branch deployment
hs stack rollback my-stack --branch staging
```

**Options:**

| Flag              | Description                              |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `--to <version>`  | Target version                           |
| `--build <id>`    | Target build ID                          |
| `--branch <name>` | Branch to rollback (default: production) |
| `--rebuild`       | Force full rebuild                       |
| `--no-wait`       | Don't watch progress                     |

### hs stack stop \<stack-name\>

Stop a deployment.

```bash
hs stack stop my-stack
hs stack stop my-stack --branch staging
hs stack stop my-stack --force  # Skip confirmation
```

**Options:**

| Flag              | Description               |
| ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| `--branch <name>` | Branch deployment to stop |
| `--force, -f`     | Skip confirmation prompt  |

---

## SDK Generation

### hs sdk list

List stacks available for SDK generation.

```bash
hs sdk list
```

### hs sdk create typescript \<stack-name\>

Generate TypeScript SDK.

```bash
hs sdk create typescript my-stack
hs sdk create typescript my-stack --output ./src/generated/
hs sdk create typescript my-stack --package-name @myorg/my-sdk
hs sdk create typescript my-stack --url wss://my-stack.stack.usehyperstack.com
```

**Options:**

| Flag                        | Description                         |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `--output, -o <path>`       | Output file path (overrides config) |
| `--package-name, -p <name>` | Package name for TypeScript         |
| `--url <url>`               | WebSocket URL for the stack         |

### hs sdk create rust \<stack-name\>

Generate Rust SDK crate.

```bash
hs sdk create rust my-stack
hs sdk create rust my-stack --output ./crates/
hs sdk create rust my-stack --crate-name my-stack-sdk
hs sdk create rust my-stack --module  # Generate as module instead of crate
hs sdk create rust my-stack --url wss://my-stack.stack.usehyperstack.com
```

**Options:**

| Flag                  | Description                                                 |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--output, -o <path>` | Output directory path (overrides config)                    |
| `--crate-name <name>` | Custom crate name for generated Rust crate                  |
| `--module`            | Generate as a module (mod.rs) instead of a standalone crate |
| `--url <url>`         | WebSocket URL for the stack                                 |

The `--module` flag generates the SDK as a Rust module (with `mod.rs`) that can be embedded directly into an existing crate, rather than creating a standalone crate with its own `Cargo.toml`. This is useful for monorepo setups or when you want to include generated code within your own crate.

---

## Configuration File

**File:** `hyperstack.toml`

```toml
[project]
name = "my-project"

# SDK generation settings
[sdk]
output_dir = "./generated"                              # Default output for both languages
typescript_output_dir = "./frontend/src/generated"     # Override for TypeScript only
rust_output_dir = "./crates/generated"                 # Override for Rust only
typescript_package = "@myorg/my-sdk"                   # Package name for TypeScript
rust_module_mode = false                               # Generate Rust SDKs as modules by default

# Build preferences
[build]
watch_by_default = true

# Stack definitions
# Auto-discovered from .hyperstack/*.ast.json
# Define explicitly for custom naming or per-stack overrides:
[[stacks]]
name = "my-game"
ast = "SettlementGame"                                 # Entity name or path to .ast.json
description = "Settlement game tracking"
typescript_output_file = "./src/generated/game.ts"    # Per-stack TypeScript output path
rust_output_crate = "./crates/game-stack"             # Per-stack Rust output path
rust_module = true                                     # Per-stack: generate as module instead of crate
```

### SDK Configuration Options

| Option                   | Scope        | Description                                       |
| ------------------------ | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `output_dir`             | `[sdk]`      | Default output directory for both languages       |
| `typescript_output_dir`  | `[sdk]`      | Override output directory for TypeScript SDKs     |
| `rust_output_dir`        | `[sdk]`      | Override output directory for Rust SDKs           |
| `typescript_package`     | `[sdk]`      | Package name for generated TypeScript code        |
| `rust_module_mode`       | `[sdk]`      | Generate Rust SDKs as modules by default          |
| `typescript_output_file` | `[[stacks]]` | Per-stack TypeScript output file path             |
| `rust_output_crate`      | `[[stacks]]` | Per-stack Rust output crate/module directory      |
| `rust_module`            | `[[stacks]]` | Per-stack override for module vs crate generation |

For most projects, you only need:

```toml
[project]
name = "my-project"
```

The CLI auto-discovers stacks from `.hyperstack/*.ast.json` files.

---

## Build Process

### Status Flow

```
pending → uploading → queued → building → pushing → deploying → completed
                                                              ↘ failed
```

### Build Phases

| Phase            | Description                |
| ---------------- | -------------------------- |
| SUBMITTED        | Queued for processing      |
| PROVISIONING     | Starting build environment |
| DOWNLOAD_SOURCE  | Preparing source           |
| INSTALL          | Installing dependencies    |
| PRE_BUILD        | Preparing build            |
| BUILD            | Compiling                  |
| POST_BUILD       | Finalizing                 |
| UPLOAD_ARTIFACTS | Publishing image           |
| FINALIZING       | Deploying to runtime       |

---

## Typical Workflows

### First-Time Setup

```bash
# Initialize project
hs init

# Login with your API key
hs auth login

# Validate configuration
hs config validate
```

### Development Cycle

```bash
# Make changes to stack, rebuild Rust crate
cargo build

# Deploy
hs up my-stack

# Check status
hs status
```

### Branch Deploys

```bash
# Deploy feature branch
hs up my-stack --branch feature-x
# URL: my-stack-feature-x.stack.usehyperstack.com

# Check deployment
hs stack list

# Clean up when done
hs stack stop my-stack --branch feature-x
```

### Rollback

```bash
# Quick rollback to previous version
hs stack rollback my-stack

# Rollback to specific version
hs stack rollback my-stack --to 2
```

---

## Telemetry

Hyperstack collects anonymous usage data to improve the CLI. No personal information or project details are sent.

### hs telemetry status

Show current telemetry status.

```bash
hs telemetry status
```

### hs telemetry enable

Enable telemetry collection.

```bash
hs telemetry enable
```

### hs telemetry disable

Disable telemetry collection.

```bash
hs telemetry disable
```

---

## Environment Variables

| Variable                          | Description                             |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `HYPERSTACK_API_URL`              | Override API endpoint                   |
| `DO_NOT_TRACK=1`                  | Disable telemetry (standard)            |
| `HYPERSTACK_TELEMETRY_DISABLED=1` | Disable telemetry (Hyperstack-specific) |

---

## Error Reference

| Error                | Solution                                   |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `Not authenticated`  | Run `hs auth login`                        |
| `Stack not found`    | Check `hs stack list` for available stacks |
| `AST file not found` | Run `cargo build` to generate AST          |
| `Build failed`       | Try again                                  |
| `Config invalid`     | Run `hs config validate`                   |

---

## WebSocket URL Patterns

After successful deployment:

| Type       | Pattern                                               |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Production | `wss://{stack-name}.stack.usehyperstack.com`          |
| Branch     | `wss://{stack-name}-{branch}.stack.usehyperstack.com` |
| Local      | `ws://localhost:8080`                                 |

Get the URL with:

```bash
hs stack show <stack-name>
```

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for unified stack spec format
- Replace .ast.json references with .stack.json throughout
- Replace ast config field with stack in hyperstack.toml examples
- Update OREROUND_STACK to ORE_STREAM_STACK constant name
- Update Rust SDK code examples to new HyperStack::<OreStack> pattern
- Add multi-entity mentions in stack definitions and architecture docs
- Update CLI command docs, error references, and config reference

docs/src/content/docs/cli/commands.mdx, after:

---
title: CLI Command Reference
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

Complete reference for the Hyperstack CLI (`hs`).

---

## Global Options

| Option                  | Description                                                      |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--config, -c <path>`   | Path to hyperstack.toml (default: `hyperstack.toml`)             |
| `--json`                | Output as JSON                                                   |
| `--verbose`             | Enable verbose output                                            |
| `--help, -h`            | Show help                                                        |
| `--version, -V`         | Show version                                                     |
| `--completions <SHELL>` | Generate shell completions (bash, zsh, fish, powershell, elvish) |

---

## Quick Reference

| Command                        | Description                          |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| `hyperstack-cli create [name]` | Scaffold a new app from a template   |
| `hs init`                      | Initialize a stack project           |
| `hs up [stack]`                | Deploy stack (push + build + deploy) |
| `hs push [stack]`              | Push stack to remote (alias)         |
| `hs status`                    | Show project overview                |
| `hs stack list`                | List all stacks                      |
| `hs stack show`                | Show stack details                   |
| `hs telemetry status`          | Show telemetry status                |

:::note[npm vs Cargo]
When installed via npm (`npm install -g hyperstack-cli`), the command is `hyperstack-cli`. When installed via Cargo (`cargo install hyperstack-cli`), the command is `hs`. Both are the same CLI.
:::

---

## Create a New App

### hyperstack-cli create [name]

Scaffold a new Hyperstack project from a template. This is the fastest way to get started.

```bash
# Interactive — prompts for name and template
npx hyperstack-cli create

# With project name
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app

# With specific template
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app --template react-ore
```

**Available templates:**

| Template         | Aliases                              | Description                               |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `react-ore`      | `ore-react`                          | ORE mining rounds viewer (React + Vite)   |
| `rust-ore`       | `ore-rust`                           | ORE mining rounds client (Rust + Tokio)   |
| `typescript-ore` | `ore-typescript`, `ts-ore`, `ore-ts` | ORE mining rounds client (TypeScript CLI) |

**Options:**

| Flag                | Description                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `--template <name>` | Skip interactive selection            |
| `--offline`         | Use cached templates only             |
| `--force-refresh`   | Clear template cache and re-download  |
| `--skip-install`    | Don't run `npm install` automatically |

Templates are downloaded from GitHub releases and cached in `~/.hyperstack/templates/`.

---

## Project Setup

### hs init

Initialize a new Hyperstack project.

```bash
hs init
```

Creates `hyperstack.toml` with auto-discovered stacks from `.hyperstack/*.stack.json`.

### hs config validate

Validate your configuration.

```bash
hs config validate
```

---

## Authentication

Hyperstack is currently in closed beta. Contact us to receive an API key.

### hs auth login

Save your API key to authenticate.

```bash
# Interactive — prompts for API key
hs auth login

# Or pass directly
hs auth login --key <your-api-key>
```

**Options:**

| Flag        | Description                       |
| ----------- | --------------------------------- |
| `--key, -k` | API key (prompts if not provided) |

### hs auth logout

Remove stored credentials.

```bash
hs auth logout
```

### hs auth status

Check local authentication status.

```bash
hs auth status
```

### hs auth whoami

Verify authentication with server.

```bash
hs auth whoami
```

**Credentials location:** `~/.hyperstack/credentials.toml`

---

## Deployment

### hs up [stack-name]

Deploy a stack: push, build, and deploy in one command.

```bash
# Deploy all stacks
hs up

# Deploy specific stack
hs up my-stack

# Deploy to branch
hs up my-stack --branch staging
# Creates: my-stack-staging.stack.usehyperstack.com

# Preview deployment
hs up my-stack --preview

# Preview what would be deployed (no actual deployment)
hs up my-stack --dry-run
```

**Options:**

| Flag                  | Description                                   |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `--branch, -b <name>` | Deploy to named branch                        |
| `--preview`           | Create preview deployment                     |
| `--dry-run`           | Show what would be deployed without deploying |

### hs status

Show overview of all stacks, builds, and deployments.

```bash
hs status
hs status --json
```

---

## Stack Management

### hs stack list

List all stacks with their deployment status.

```bash
hs stack list
hs stack list --json
```

**Output:**

```
STACK              STATUS     VERSION  URL
settlement-game    active     v3       wss://settlement-game.stack.usehyperstack.com
token-tracker      active     v1       wss://token-tracker.stack.usehyperstack.com
```

### hs stack push [stack-name]

Push local stacks to remote.

```bash
# Push all stacks
hs stack push

# Push specific stack
hs stack push my-stack
```

### hs stack show \<stack-name\>

Show detailed stack information including deployment status and versions.

```bash
hs stack show my-stack
hs stack show my-stack --version 3
hs stack show my-stack -v 3
```

**Options:**

| Flag                | Description                   |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `--version, -v <n>` | Show specific version details |

**Output includes:**

- Entity information
- Deployment status and URL
- Latest version details
- Recent builds

### hs stack versions \<stack-name\>

Show version history.

```bash
hs stack versions my-stack
hs stack versions my-stack --limit 10
hs stack versions my-stack -l 10
```

**Options:**

| Flag              | Description                              |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `--limit, -l <n>` | Maximum number of versions (default: 20) |

### hs stack delete \<stack-name\>

Delete a stack from remote.

```bash
hs stack delete my-stack
hs stack delete my-stack --force  # Skip confirmation
hs stack delete my-stack -f
```

**Options:**

| Flag          | Description              |
| ------------- | ------------------------ |
| `--force, -f` | Skip confirmation prompt |

### hs stack rollback \<stack-name\>

Rollback to a previous deployment.

```bash
# Rollback to previous version
hs stack rollback my-stack

# Rollback to specific version
hs stack rollback my-stack --to 2

# Rollback to specific build
hs stack rollback my-stack --build 123

# Rollback branch deployment
hs stack rollback my-stack --branch staging
```

**Options:**

| Flag              | Description                              |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `--to <version>`  | Target version                           |
| `--build <id>`    | Target build ID                          |
| `--branch <name>` | Branch to rollback (default: production) |
| `--rebuild`       | Force full rebuild                       |
| `--no-wait`       | Don't watch progress                     |

### hs stack stop \<stack-name\>

Stop a deployment.

```bash
hs stack stop my-stack
hs stack stop my-stack --branch staging
hs stack stop my-stack --force  # Skip confirmation
```

**Options:**

| Flag              | Description               |
| ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| `--branch <name>` | Branch deployment to stop |
| `--force, -f`     | Skip confirmation prompt  |

---

## SDK Generation

### hs sdk list

List stacks available for SDK generation.

```bash
hs sdk list
```

### hs sdk create typescript \<stack-name\>

Generate TypeScript SDK.

```bash
hs sdk create typescript my-stack
hs sdk create typescript my-stack --output ./src/generated/
hs sdk create typescript my-stack --package-name @myorg/my-sdk
hs sdk create typescript my-stack --url wss://my-stack.stack.usehyperstack.com
```

**Options:**

| Flag                        | Description                         |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `--output, -o <path>`       | Output file path (overrides config) |
| `--package-name, -p <name>` | Package name for TypeScript         |
| `--url <url>`               | WebSocket URL for the stack         |

### hs sdk create rust \<stack-name\>

Generate Rust SDK crate.

```bash
hs sdk create rust my-stack
hs sdk create rust my-stack --output ./crates/
hs sdk create rust my-stack --crate-name my-stack-sdk
hs sdk create rust my-stack --module  # Generate as module instead of crate
hs sdk create rust my-stack --url wss://my-stack.stack.usehyperstack.com
```

**Options:**

| Flag                  | Description                                                 |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--output, -o <path>` | Output directory path (overrides config)                    |
| `--crate-name <name>` | Custom crate name for generated Rust crate                  |
| `--module`            | Generate as a module (mod.rs) instead of a standalone crate |
| `--url <url>`         | WebSocket URL for the stack                                 |

The `--module` flag generates the SDK as a Rust module (with `mod.rs`) that can be embedded directly into an existing crate, rather than creating a standalone crate with its own `Cargo.toml`. This is useful for monorepo setups or when you want to include generated code within your own crate.

---

## Configuration File

**File:** `hyperstack.toml`

```toml
[project]
name = "my-project"

# SDK generation settings
[sdk]
output_dir = "./generated"                              # Default output for both languages
typescript_output_dir = "./frontend/src/generated"     # Override for TypeScript only
rust_output_dir = "./crates/generated"                 # Override for Rust only
typescript_package = "@myorg/my-sdk"                   # Package name for TypeScript
rust_module_mode = false                               # Generate Rust SDKs as modules by default

# Build preferences
[build]
watch_by_default = true

# Stack definitions
# Auto-discovered from .hyperstack/*.stack.json
# Define explicitly for custom naming or per-stack overrides:
[[stacks]]
name = "my-game"
stack = "SettlementGame"                               # Stack name or path to .stack.json
description = "Settlement game tracking"
typescript_output_file = "./src/generated/game.ts"    # Per-stack TypeScript output path
rust_output_crate = "./crates/game-stack"             # Per-stack Rust output path
rust_module = true                                     # Per-stack: generate as module instead of crate
```

### SDK Configuration Options

| Option                   | Scope        | Description                                       |
| ------------------------ | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `output_dir`             | `[sdk]`      | Default output directory for both languages       |
| `typescript_output_dir`  | `[sdk]`      | Override output directory for TypeScript SDKs     |
| `rust_output_dir`        | `[sdk]`      | Override output directory for Rust SDKs           |
| `typescript_package`     | `[sdk]`      | Package name for generated TypeScript code        |
| `rust_module_mode`       | `[sdk]`      | Generate Rust SDKs as modules by default          |
| `typescript_output_file` | `[[stacks]]` | Per-stack TypeScript output file path             |
| `rust_output_crate`      | `[[stacks]]` | Per-stack Rust output crate/module directory      |
| `rust_module`            | `[[stacks]]` | Per-stack override for module vs crate generation |

For most projects, you only need:

```toml
[project]
name = "my-project"
```

The CLI auto-discovers stacks from `.hyperstack/*.stack.json` files.

---

## Build Process

### Status Flow

```
pending → uploading → queued → building → pushing → deploying → completed
                                                              ↘ failed
```

### Build Phases

| Phase            | Description                |
| ---------------- | -------------------------- |
| SUBMITTED        | Queued for processing      |
| PROVISIONING     | Starting build environment |
| DOWNLOAD_SOURCE  | Preparing source           |
| INSTALL          | Installing dependencies    |
| PRE_BUILD        | Preparing build            |
| BUILD            | Compiling                  |
| POST_BUILD       | Finalizing                 |
| UPLOAD_ARTIFACTS | Publishing image           |
| FINALIZING       | Deploying to runtime       |

---

## Typical Workflows

### First-Time Setup

```bash
# Initialize project
hs init

# Login with your API key
hs auth login

# Validate configuration
hs config validate
```

### Development Cycle

```bash
# Make changes to stack, rebuild Rust crate
cargo build

# Deploy
hs up my-stack

# Check status
hs status
```

### Branch Deploys

```bash
# Deploy feature branch
hs up my-stack --branch feature-x
# URL: my-stack-feature-x.stack.usehyperstack.com

# Check deployment
hs stack list

# Clean up when done
hs stack stop my-stack --branch feature-x
```

### Rollback

```bash
# Quick rollback to previous version
hs stack rollback my-stack

# Rollback to specific version
hs stack rollback my-stack --to 2
```

---

## Telemetry

Hyperstack collects anonymous usage data to improve the CLI. No personal information or project details are sent.

### hs telemetry status

Show current telemetry status.

```bash
hs telemetry status
```

### hs telemetry enable

Enable telemetry collection.

```bash
hs telemetry enable
```

### hs telemetry disable

Disable telemetry collection.

```bash
hs telemetry disable
```

---

## Environment Variables

| Variable                          | Description                             |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `HYPERSTACK_API_URL`              | Override API endpoint                   |
| `DO_NOT_TRACK=1`                  | Disable telemetry (standard)            |
| `HYPERSTACK_TELEMETRY_DISABLED=1` | Disable telemetry (Hyperstack-specific) |

---

## Error Reference

| Error                | Solution                                   |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `Not authenticated`  | Run `hs auth login`                        |
| `Stack not found`    | Check `hs stack list` for available stacks |
| `Stack file not found` | Run `cargo build` to generate stack spec  |
| `Build failed`       | Try again                                  |
| `Config invalid`     | Run `hs config validate`                   |

---

## WebSocket URL Patterns

After successful deployment:

| Type       | Pattern                                               |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Production | `wss://{stack-name}.stack.usehyperstack.com`          |
| Branch     | `wss://{stack-name}-{branch}.stack.usehyperstack.com` |
| Local      | `ws://localhost:8080`                                 |

Get the URL with:

```bash
hs stack show <stack-name>
```
