docs/src/content/docs/agent-skills/setup.mdx, before:

---
title: Editor Setup
sidebar:
  order: 2
description: Set up Hyperstack agent skills in Cursor, Claude Code, VS Code, Windsurf, and other AI coding tools.
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

The quickest way to install skills is the universal command:

```bash
npx skills add usehyperstack/skills
```

This auto-detects your editor and installs the skill files to the right location. If you prefer to set things up manually, or want to understand what gets installed, see the editor-specific instructions below.

---

## Supported Editors

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Cursor">

The `npx skills add` command creates skill files in `.cursor/rules/` in your project directory:

```
.cursor/rules/
├── hyperstack.mdc
├── hyperstack-consume.mdc
└── hyperstack-build.mdc
```

Cursor uses `.mdc` files (markdown with YAML frontmatter). To install manually, download the SKILL.md files from the [skills repo](https://github.com/usehyperstack/skills), rename them to `.mdc`, and place them in `.cursor/rules/`.

:::note[Restart may be needed]
After adding new rule files, you may need to reload the Cursor window (`Cmd+Shift+P` then "Reload Window") for the skills to take effect.
:::

:::tip[Allow CLI access]
When Cursor asks to run `hs explore`, approve it. The skills declare `allowed-tools: Bash(hs:*)` which tells Cursor the CLI commands are safe to run.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Claude Code">

For Claude Code, skills are installed in the `.claude/skills/` directory:

```
.claude/skills/
├── hyperstack/SKILL.md
├── hyperstack-consume/SKILL.md
└── hyperstack-build/SKILL.md
```

The `npx skills add` command handles this automatically. You can also set project-level context in `CLAUDE.md` at the project root.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windsurf">

Windsurf reads rules from `.windsurfrules` or `.windsurf/rules/`:

```
.windsurf/rules/
├── hyperstack.md
├── hyperstack-consume.md
└── hyperstack-build.md
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="VS Code + Copilot">

GitHub Copilot reads instructions from `.github/copilot-instructions.md` or from individual instruction files. The `npx skills add` command places files in the correct location.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="OpenCode">

OpenCode loads skills from the `.opencode/skills/` directory or from project-level `AGENTS.md`:

```
.opencode/skills/
├── hyperstack.md
├── hyperstack-consume.md
└── hyperstack-build.md
```

You can also load skills directly in OpenCode using the `/skill` command. The `npx skills add` command handles placement automatically.

:::tip[CLI access]
OpenCode agents can run CLI commands directly. The skills instruct the agent to call `hs explore --json` for live schema discovery, which works without any extra configuration.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Cline / Roo Code">

Cline and Roo Code read from a rules directory in your project:

```
.clinerules/
├── hyperstack.md
├── hyperstack-consume.md
└── hyperstack-build.md
```

Both editors also support the `AGENTS.md` standard at the project root as a fallback.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Other Editors">

The `npx skills` tool supports 30+ editors and agents, including Codex, OpenCode, Aider, and more. Run:

```bash
npx skills add usehyperstack/skills
```

It will auto-detect your environment. If your editor isn't supported, you can manually copy the SKILL.md files from the [skills repository](https://github.com/usehyperstack/skills) into whatever location your editor reads custom context from.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Prerequisites

Agent skills reference the Hyperstack CLI for live schema discovery. Make sure the CLI is installed:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="npm">

```bash
npm install -g hyperstack-cli
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Cargo">

```bash
cargo install hyperstack-cli
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The skills tell your agent to run `hs explore --json` to discover stacks and schemas. Without the CLI installed, the agent can still use the static SDK patterns from the skills, but won't be able to discover live schema information.

---

## Verifying Installation

After installing, ask your agent a Hyperstack question. For example:

> "What stacks are available on Hyperstack? Show me the entities and fields for the ore stack."

The agent should:
1. Run `hs explore --json` to list available stacks
2. Run `hs explore ore --json` to get the ore stack schema
3. Present the entity names, field paths, and types

If the agent doesn't recognize Hyperstack commands, check that the skill files are in the correct directory for your editor.

---

## Updating Skills

Skills are version-independent. The static patterns (SDK syntax, DSL macros) change rarely, and the dynamic data (entity schemas, field types) comes from `hs explore` which always reflects your installed CLI version.

To update skills to the latest version:

```bash
npx skills add usehyperstack/skills
```

This overwrites the existing skill files with the latest versions.

Commit message:

docs: add agent bootstrap URL and restructure Build with AI as agent-first
Adds docs/public/agent.md served at /agent.md, a plain text instruction
file that any AI agent can read to self-setup Hyperstack (install CLI
via Cargo/npm, install skills for 40+ editors via npx skills, discover
stacks). Users paste one prompt to get everything working.

Restructures the overview page to lead with the agent-driven setup path
and moves manual instructions to a secondary section. Adds tip callout
to the editor setup page pointing to the automated path.

docs/src/content/docs/agent-skills/setup.mdx, after:

---
title: Editor Setup
sidebar:
  order: 2
description: Manual setup for Hyperstack agent skills in Cursor, Claude Code, VS Code, Windsurf, and other AI coding tools.
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

:::tip[Let your agent handle this]
The easiest setup is to paste this into your agent and let it do everything:

> Read https://docs.usehyperstack.com/agent.md and follow the instructions to set up Hyperstack in this project

See [Build with AI](/agent-skills/overview/) for details. The instructions below are for manual setup.
:::

If you prefer to install skills yourself, the universal command is:

```bash
npx skills add usehyperstack/skills
```

This auto-detects your editor and installs the skill files to the right location. For editor-specific details or manual placement, see below.

---

## Supported Editors

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Cursor">

The `npx skills add` command creates skill files in `.cursor/rules/` in your project directory:

```
.cursor/rules/
├── hyperstack.mdc
├── hyperstack-consume.mdc
└── hyperstack-build.mdc
```

Cursor uses `.mdc` files (markdown with YAML frontmatter). To install manually, download the SKILL.md files from the [skills repo](https://github.com/usehyperstack/skills), rename them to `.mdc`, and place them in `.cursor/rules/`.

:::note[Restart may be needed]
After adding new rule files, you may need to reload the Cursor window (`Cmd+Shift+P` then "Reload Window") for the skills to take effect.
:::

:::tip[Allow CLI access]
When Cursor asks to run `hs explore`, approve it. The skills declare `allowed-tools: Bash(hs:*)` which tells Cursor the CLI commands are safe to run.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Claude Code">

For Claude Code, skills are installed in the `.claude/skills/` directory:

```
.claude/skills/
├── hyperstack/SKILL.md
├── hyperstack-consume/SKILL.md
└── hyperstack-build/SKILL.md
```

The `npx skills add` command handles this automatically. You can also set project-level context in `CLAUDE.md` at the project root.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windsurf">

Windsurf reads rules from `.windsurfrules` or `.windsurf/rules/`:

```
.windsurf/rules/
├── hyperstack.md
├── hyperstack-consume.md
└── hyperstack-build.md
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="VS Code + Copilot">

GitHub Copilot reads instructions from `.github/copilot-instructions.md` or from individual instruction files. The `npx skills add` command places files in the correct location.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="OpenCode">

OpenCode loads skills from the `.opencode/skills/` directory or from project-level `AGENTS.md`:

```
.opencode/skills/
├── hyperstack.md
├── hyperstack-consume.md
└── hyperstack-build.md
```

You can also load skills directly in OpenCode using the `/skill` command. The `npx skills add` command handles placement automatically.

:::tip[CLI access]
OpenCode agents can run CLI commands directly. The skills instruct the agent to call `hs explore --json` for live schema discovery, which works without any extra configuration.
:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Cline / Roo Code">

Cline and Roo Code read from a rules directory in your project:

```
.clinerules/
├── hyperstack.md
├── hyperstack-consume.md
└── hyperstack-build.md
```

Both editors also support the `AGENTS.md` standard at the project root as a fallback.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Other Editors">

The `npx skills` tool supports 30+ editors and agents, including Codex, OpenCode, Aider, and more. Run:

```bash
npx skills add usehyperstack/skills
```

It will auto-detect your environment. If your editor isn't supported, you can manually copy the SKILL.md files from the [skills repository](https://github.com/usehyperstack/skills) into whatever location your editor reads custom context from.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Prerequisites

Agent skills reference the Hyperstack CLI for live schema discovery. Make sure the CLI is installed:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="npm">

```bash
npm install -g hyperstack-cli
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Cargo">

```bash
cargo install hyperstack-cli
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The skills tell your agent to run `hs explore --json` to discover stacks and schemas. Without the CLI installed, the agent can still use the static SDK patterns from the skills, but won't be able to discover live schema information.

---

## Verifying Installation

After installing, ask your agent a Hyperstack question. For example:

> "What stacks are available on Hyperstack? Show me the entities and fields for the ore stack."

The agent should:
1. Run `hs explore --json` to list available stacks
2. Run `hs explore ore --json` to get the ore stack schema
3. Present the entity names, field paths, and types

If the agent doesn't recognize Hyperstack commands, check that the skill files are in the correct directory for your editor.

---

## Updating Skills

Skills are version-independent. The static patterns (SDK syntax, DSL macros) change rarely, and the dynamic data (entity schemas, field types) comes from `hs explore` which always reflects your installed CLI version.

To update skills to the latest version:

```bash
npx skills add usehyperstack/skills
```

This overwrites the existing skill files with the latest versions.
