docs/src/content/docs/using-stacks/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation Reference
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

Complete installation reference for all Hyperstack client SDKs.

:::tip[New to Hyperstack?]
Start with [Try It Now](/using-stacks/try-it-now) to see Hyperstack in action, then follow the [React Guide](/using-stacks/react) or [TypeScript Guide](/using-stacks/typescript).
:::

:::note[Building your own stack?]
If you're creating a custom data feed, see [Building Stacks → Installation](/building-stacks/installation) instead.
:::

---

## TypeScript (Core)

For Node.js, Vue, Svelte, or vanilla JS:

```bash
npm install hyperstack-typescript
```

Framework-agnostic with AsyncIterable-based streaming. No peer dependencies.

---

## TypeScript (React)

For React applications:

```bash
npm install hyperstack-react
```

**Peer dependencies:** `react` ^19.0.0, `zustand` ^4.0.0

```bash
npm install react zustand
```

:::note[Which package?]

- **React/Next.js** → `hyperstack-react`
- **Everything else** → `hyperstack-typescript`
  :::

---

## Rust

Add to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
hyperstack-sdk = "0.2"
```

---

## Next Steps

- [Try It Now](/using-stacks/try-it-now) — See Hyperstack in action in 2 minutes
- [React Guide](/using-stacks/react) — Build a complete React app
- [TypeScript Guide](/using-stacks/typescript) — Use with Node.js, Vue, Svelte

---

## Troubleshooting

| Issue                               | Solution                                   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `Cannot find module 'hyperstack-*'` | Run `npm install` for the relevant package |
| Peer dependency warnings            | Install `react` and `zustand` explicitly   |

Commit message:

docs: Update existing documentation content for restructured organization
Consolidates and updates existing documentation pages, removes deprecated SDK overview pages (now in unified SDK docs), and reorganizes content to align with new documentation structure.

Ultraworked with [Sisyphus](https://github.com/code-yeongyu/oh-my-opencode)

Co-authored-by: Sisyphus <clio-agent@sisyphuslabs.ai>

docs/src/content/docs/using-stacks/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation Reference
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

Complete installation reference for all Hyperstack client SDKs.

:::tip[New to Hyperstack?]
Start with the [Quickstart](/using-stacks/quickstart) to scaffold a working app, or [Connect to a Stack](/using-stacks/connect/) to add Hyperstack to an existing project.
:::

:::note[Building your own stack?]
If you're creating a custom data feed, see [Building Stacks → Environment Setup](/building-stacks/installation) instead.
:::

---

## TypeScript (Core)

For Node.js, Vue, Svelte, or vanilla JS:

```bash
npm install hyperstack-typescript
```

Framework-agnostic with AsyncIterable-based streaming. No peer dependencies.

---

## TypeScript (React)

For React applications:

```bash
npm install hyperstack-react
```

**Peer dependencies:** `react` ^19.0.0, `zustand` ^4.0.0

```bash
npm install react zustand
```

:::note[Which package?]

- **React/Next.js** → `hyperstack-react`
- **Everything else** → `hyperstack-typescript`
  :::

---

## Rust

Add to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
hyperstack-sdk = "0.2"
```

---

## Next Steps

- [Quickstart](/using-stacks/quickstart) — Scaffold a working app in under 2 minutes
- [React SDK](/sdks/react/) — Build a complete React app
- [TypeScript SDK](/sdks/typescript/) — Use with Node.js, Vue, Svelte
- [Rust SDK](/sdks/rust/) — Native Rust client

---

## Troubleshooting

| Issue                               | Solution                                   |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `Cannot find module 'hyperstack-*'` | Run `npm install` for the relevant package |
| Peer dependency warnings            | Install `react` and `zustand` explicitly   |
