docs/src/content/docs/using-stacks/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: Quickstart
sidebar:
  order: 1
  badge: Start Here
description: Scaffold a new Hyperstack app in under 2 minutes.
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";
import Workflow from "../../../components/Workflow.astro";

Create a new app that streams live Solana data in under 2 minutes. The CLI scaffolds everything you need — no configuration required.

:::tip[Adding to an existing project?]
If you already have a project and want to add Hyperstack, see [Connect to a Stack](/using-stacks/connect/) instead.
:::

---

## Prerequisites

Choose how you want to run the CLI:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="npx (no install)">

No installation needed — just run:

```bash
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app
```

This downloads and runs the CLI without installing it globally.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="npm (global)">

Install globally via npm:

```bash
npm install -g hyperstack-cli
```

Then use the `hyperstack-cli` command:

```bash
hyperstack-cli create my-app
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Cargo (Rust)">

Install the native binary via Cargo:

```bash
cargo install hyperstack-cli
```

Then use the `hs` command:

```bash
hs create my-app
```

This is the same CLI — Cargo installs it as `hs` while npm uses `hyperstack-cli`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Create Your App

```bash
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app
```

You'll be prompted to select a template:

| Template         | Description            | Run Command                                                  |
| ---------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `react-ore`      | React + Vite dashboard | `npm run dev` → open [localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) |
| `typescript-ore` | TypeScript CLI client  | `npm start`                                                  |
| `rust-ore`       | Rust + Tokio client    | `cargo run`                                                  |

:::note[About the ORE demo]
All CLI templates use the same underlying example: **ORE mining rounds**. This demonstrates Hyperstack with a real, live Solana program. The templates differ only in language/framework — React for a web dashboard, TypeScript for a CLI tool, or Rust for a native binary. Each connects to the same public ORE stack and streams identical data.
:::

Or specify directly:

```bash
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app --template react-ore    # or typescript-ore, rust-ore
```

:::tip[Pure Rust workflow]
If you prefer to avoid Node.js entirely:

```bash
cargo install hyperstack-cli
hs create my-app --template rust-ore
cd my-app
cargo run
```

:::

That's it. You're streaming live Solana data.

---

## What You Just Built

The scaffolded app connects to a deployed **Hyperstack Stack** — a streaming data pipeline that:

1. **Watches Solana** for ORE mining program activity
2. **Transforms raw transactions** into structured round data (round ID, motherlode, deployment totals)
3. **Streams updates** to your app via WebSocket as they happen on-chain

<Workflow steps={[
  {
    title: "Solana",
    description: "ORE program"
  },
  {
    title: "Hyperstack",
    description: "ORE stack"
  },
  {
    title: "Your App",
    description: "Live feed"
  }
]} />

No RPC calls. No polling. No custom indexer. Just streaming data.

---

## Available Templates

| Template           | Command                            | What You Get                                          |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **react-ore**      | `npx hyperstack-cli create my-app` | React + Vite dashboard showing live ORE mining rounds |
| **typescript-ore** | `npx hyperstack-cli create my-app` | TypeScript CLI that streams ORE data to your terminal |
| **rust-ore**       | `npx hyperstack-cli create my-app` | Rust + Tokio client streaming ORE round updates       |

All templates connect to the public ORE stack at `wss://ore.stack.usehyperstack.com`.

You can also specify the template directly:

```bash
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app --template react-ore
```

---

## What's Inside

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="React Template">

The React template uses `hyperstack-react` with a pre-built stack definition:

```tsx
// App.tsx
import { HyperstackProvider } from "hyperstack-react";
import { OreDashboard } from "./components/OreDashboard";

export default function App() {
  return (
    <HyperstackProvider
      websocketUrl="wss://ore.stack.usehyperstack.com"
      autoConnect={true}
    >
      <OreDashboard />
    </HyperstackProvider>
  );
}
```

```tsx
// components/OreDashboard.tsx
import { useHyperstack } from "hyperstack-react";
import { ORE_STREAM_STACK } from "hyperstack-stacks/ore";

export function OreDashboard() {
  const { views, isConnected } = useHyperstack(ORE_STREAM_STACK);
  const { data: rounds } = views.OreRound.latest.use({ take: 5 });

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{isConnected ? "Live" : "Connecting..."}</p>
      {rounds?.map((round) => (
        <div key={round.id?.round_id}>
          Round #{round.id?.round_id} — Motherlode: {round.state?.motherlode}
        </div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="TypeScript Template">

The TypeScript template uses `hyperstack-typescript` with typed views:

```typescript
// main.ts
import { HyperStack } from "hyperstack-typescript";
import { ORE_STREAM_STACK, type OreRound } from "hyperstack-stacks/ore";

const hs = await HyperStack.connect("wss://ore.stack.usehyperstack.com", {
  stack: ORE_STREAM_STACK,
});

for await (const update of hs.views.OreRound.latest.watch({ take: 1 })) {
  if (update.type === "upsert" || update.type === "patch") {
    console.log(`Round #${update.data.id?.round_id}`);
    console.log(`Motherlode: ${update.data.state?.motherlode}`);
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Rust Template">

The Rust template uses `hyperstack-sdk` with typed views:

```rust
// main.rs
use hyperstack_sdk::prelude::*;
use hyperstack_stacks::ore::{OreStack, OreRound};

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> anyhow::Result<()> {
    let hs = HyperStack::<OreStack>::connect().await?;

    let mut stream = hs.views.ore_round.latest().listen();

    while let Some(round) = stream.next().await {
        println!("Round # {:?}", round.id.round_id);
        println!("Motherlode: {:?}", round.state.motherlode);
    }
    Ok(())
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Using an AI Coding Agent?

Install Hyperstack agent skills so your AI can write correct code without you looking up docs:

```bash
npx skills add usehyperstack/skills
```

Now try asking your agent: "Show me the ORE mining round data in a table with live updates."

See [Build with AI](/agent-skills/overview/) for the full guide and prompt cookbook.

---

## Next Steps

Now that you have a working app:

- [Build with AI](/agent-skills/overview/) — Let your AI agent write Hyperstack code with agent skills
- [How It Works](/using-stacks/how-it-works/) — Understand Stacks, Views, and live data streaming
- [React SDK](/sdks/react/) — Build a complete React app with custom stack definitions
- [TypeScript SDK](/sdks/typescript/) — Use Hyperstack with Node.js, Vue, Svelte, or vanilla JS
- [Rust SDK](/sdks/rust/) — Native Rust client
- [Build Your Own Stack](/building-stacks/workflow) — Create custom data streams for any Solana program

Commit message:

docs: restructure landing page with persona-based routing and beginner setup guide
Add three-persona navigation (beginners, vibe coders, developers) to the
landing page with clear path routing. Create zero-to-hero setup guide for
complete beginners covering AI tool installation and first project setup.
Add cross-linking tips across technical docs pointing to AI-assisted paths.

docs/src/content/docs/using-stacks/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: Quickstart
sidebar:
  order: 1
  badge: Start Here
description: Scaffold a new Hyperstack app in under 2 minutes.
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";
import Workflow from "../../../components/Workflow.astro";

Create a new app that streams live Solana data in under 2 minutes. The CLI scaffolds everything you need — no configuration required.

:::tip[Prefer AI-assisted development?]
If you're using Cursor, Claude Code, or another AI coding tool, check out [Build with AI](/agent-skills/overview/) — paste one prompt and your AI sets everything up.
:::

:::note[Adding to an existing project?]
If you already have a project and want to add Hyperstack, see [Connect to a Stack](/using-stacks/connect/) instead.
:::

---

## Prerequisites

Choose how you want to run the CLI:

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="npx (no install)">

No installation needed — just run:

```bash
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app
```

This downloads and runs the CLI without installing it globally.

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="npm (global)">

Install globally via npm:

```bash
npm install -g hyperstack-cli
```

Then use the `hyperstack-cli` command:

```bash
hyperstack-cli create my-app
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Cargo (Rust)">

Install the native binary via Cargo:

```bash
cargo install hyperstack-cli
```

Then use the `hs` command:

```bash
hs create my-app
```

This is the same CLI — Cargo installs it as `hs` while npm uses `hyperstack-cli`.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Create Your App

```bash
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app
```

You'll be prompted to select a template:

| Template         | Description            | Run Command                                                  |
| ---------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `react-ore`      | React + Vite dashboard | `npm run dev` → open [localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) |
| `typescript-ore` | TypeScript CLI client  | `npm start`                                                  |
| `rust-ore`       | Rust + Tokio client    | `cargo run`                                                  |

:::note[About the ORE demo]
All CLI templates use the same underlying example: **ORE mining rounds**. This demonstrates Hyperstack with a real, live Solana program. The templates differ only in language/framework — React for a web dashboard, TypeScript for a CLI tool, or Rust for a native binary. Each connects to the same public ORE stack and streams identical data.
:::

Or specify directly:

```bash
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app --template react-ore    # or typescript-ore, rust-ore
```

:::tip[Pure Rust workflow]
If you prefer to avoid Node.js entirely:

```bash
cargo install hyperstack-cli
hs create my-app --template rust-ore
cd my-app
cargo run
```

:::

That's it. You're streaming live Solana data.

---

## What You Just Built

The scaffolded app connects to a deployed **Hyperstack Stack** — a streaming data pipeline that:

1. **Watches Solana** for ORE mining program activity
2. **Transforms raw transactions** into structured round data (round ID, motherlode, deployment totals)
3. **Streams updates** to your app via WebSocket as they happen on-chain

<Workflow steps={[
  {
    title: "Solana",
    description: "ORE program"
  },
  {
    title: "Hyperstack",
    description: "ORE stack"
  },
  {
    title: "Your App",
    description: "Live feed"
  }
]} />

No RPC calls. No polling. No custom indexer. Just streaming data.

---

## Available Templates

| Template           | Command                            | What You Get                                          |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **react-ore**      | `npx hyperstack-cli create my-app` | React + Vite dashboard showing live ORE mining rounds |
| **typescript-ore** | `npx hyperstack-cli create my-app` | TypeScript CLI that streams ORE data to your terminal |
| **rust-ore**       | `npx hyperstack-cli create my-app` | Rust + Tokio client streaming ORE round updates       |

All templates connect to the public ORE stack at `wss://ore.stack.usehyperstack.com`.

You can also specify the template directly:

```bash
npx hyperstack-cli create my-app --template react-ore
```

---

## What's Inside

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="React Template">

The React template uses `hyperstack-react` with a pre-built stack definition:

```tsx
// App.tsx
import { HyperstackProvider } from "hyperstack-react";
import { OreDashboard } from "./components/OreDashboard";

export default function App() {
  return (
    <HyperstackProvider
      websocketUrl="wss://ore.stack.usehyperstack.com"
      autoConnect={true}
    >
      <OreDashboard />
    </HyperstackProvider>
  );
}
```

```tsx
// components/OreDashboard.tsx
import { useHyperstack } from "hyperstack-react";
import { ORE_STREAM_STACK } from "hyperstack-stacks/ore";

export function OreDashboard() {
  const { views, isConnected } = useHyperstack(ORE_STREAM_STACK);
  const { data: rounds } = views.OreRound.latest.use({ take: 5 });

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{isConnected ? "Live" : "Connecting..."}</p>
      {rounds?.map((round) => (
        <div key={round.id?.round_id}>
          Round #{round.id?.round_id} — Motherlode: {round.state?.motherlode}
        </div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="TypeScript Template">

The TypeScript template uses `hyperstack-typescript` with typed views:

```typescript
// main.ts
import { HyperStack } from "hyperstack-typescript";
import { ORE_STREAM_STACK, type OreRound } from "hyperstack-stacks/ore";

const hs = await HyperStack.connect("wss://ore.stack.usehyperstack.com", {
  stack: ORE_STREAM_STACK,
});

for await (const update of hs.views.OreRound.latest.watch({ take: 1 })) {
  if (update.type === "upsert" || update.type === "patch") {
    console.log(`Round #${update.data.id?.round_id}`);
    console.log(`Motherlode: ${update.data.state?.motherlode}`);
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Rust Template">

The Rust template uses `hyperstack-sdk` with typed views:

```rust
// main.rs
use hyperstack_sdk::prelude::*;
use hyperstack_stacks::ore::{OreStack, OreRound};

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> anyhow::Result<()> {
    let hs = HyperStack::<OreStack>::connect().await?;

    let mut stream = hs.views.ore_round.latest().listen();

    while let Some(round) = stream.next().await {
        println!("Round # {:?}", round.id.round_id);
        println!("Motherlode: {:?}", round.state.motherlode);
    }
    Ok(())
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Using an AI Coding Agent?

Install Hyperstack agent skills so your AI can write correct code without you looking up docs:

```bash
npx skills add usehyperstack/skills
```

Now try asking your agent: "Show me the ORE mining round data in a table with live updates."

See [Build with AI](/agent-skills/overview/) for the full guide and prompt cookbook.

---

## Next Steps

Now that you have a working app:

- [Build with AI](/agent-skills/overview/) — Let your AI agent write Hyperstack code with agent skills
- [How It Works](/using-stacks/how-it-works/) — Understand Stacks, Views, and live data streaming
- [React SDK](/sdks/react/) — Build a complete React app with custom stack definitions
- [TypeScript SDK](/sdks/typescript/) — Use Hyperstack with Node.js, Vue, Svelte, or vanilla JS
- [Rust SDK](/sdks/rust/) — Native Rust client
- [Build Your Own Stack](/building-stacks/workflow) — Create custom data streams for any Solana program
