docs/src/content/docs/getting-started/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: React Quickstart
sidebar:
  order: 2
  badge: New
---

Get real-time Solana data streaming in your React app in 5 minutes.

## What You'll Build

A React app that displays live data from a Solana program using Hyperstack's real-time streaming.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- A Hyperstack account ([sign up here](https://hyperstack.xyz))
- An existing Hyperstack stack deployed (or use a public demo)

---

## Step 1: Install the SDK

```bash
npm install hyperstack-react zustand react
```

**Peer dependencies:** `react ^18.0.0`, `zustand ^4.0.0`

---

## Step 2: Set Up the Provider

Wrap your app with `HyperstackProvider` to enable WebSocket connections:

```tsx
// src/main.tsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { HyperstackProvider } from "hyperstack-react";
import App from "./App";

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")!).render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <HyperstackProvider
      websocketUrl="wss://your-stack.stack.usehyperstack.com"
      autoConnect={true}
    >
      <App />
    </HyperstackProvider>
  </React.StrictMode>,
);
```

Replace `your-stack` with your deployed stack name, or use `ws://localhost:8080` for local development.

---

## Step 3: Define Your Stack

Create a stack definition that matches your deployed stack's entities:

```tsx
// src/stack.ts
import { defineStack, createListView, createStateView } from "hyperstack-react";

// Define types matching your stack entities
interface Token {
  mint: string;
  name?: string;
  symbol?: string;
  price?: number;
  totalTrades?: number;
}

// Define the stack
export const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "my-tokens",

  views: {
    tokens: {
      // List view: all entities as an array
      list: createListView<Token>("Token/list"),
      // State view: single entity by key
      state: createStateView<Token>("Token/state"),
    },
  },

  helpers: {
    formatPrice: (value: number) => `${value.toFixed(6)} SOL`,
  },
});
```

**View path format:** `{EntityName}/{mode}` where mode is `list` or `state`.

---

## Step 4: Use Your Stack in Components

```tsx
// src/App.tsx
import { useHyperstack } from "hyperstack-react";
import { TokenStack } from "./stack";

function TokenList() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  // Subscribe to the token list - updates in real-time
  const { data: tokens, isLoading, error } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();

  if (isLoading) return <div>Connecting...</div>;
  if (error) return <div>Error: {error.message}</div>;

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Live Tokens ({tokens?.length || 0})</h1>
      {tokens?.map((token) => (
        <div key={token.mint}>
          <strong>{token.name || "Unknown"}</strong> ({token.symbol})
          {token.price && (
            <span> - {stack.helpers.formatPrice(token.price)}</span>
          )}
        </div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
}

function TokenDetail({ mint }: { mint: string }) {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  // Subscribe to a single token by key
  const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key: mint });

  if (!token) return <div>Loading token...</div>;

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>{token.name}</h2>
      <p>Total trades: {token.totalTrades}</p>
    </div>
  );
}

export default function App() {
  return <TokenList />;
}
```

---

## Step 5: Run Your App

```bash
npm run dev
```

Your app now receives real-time updates whenever the on-chain data changes. No polling, no manual refreshes.

---

## What's Happening Under the Hood

1. **HyperstackProvider** establishes a WebSocket connection to your deployed stack
2. **useHyperstack** gives you access to your stack's views and helpers
3. **views.\*.use()** creates a subscription and returns reactive data
4. When on-chain data changes, Hyperstack pushes updates through the WebSocket
5. Your React components re-render automatically with the new data

---

## Next Steps

- [Creating Stacks](/stacks/overview) - Create custom data streams
- [Stack API Reference](/concepts/stack-api) - Full API documentation
- [CLI Commands](/cli/commands) - Deploy and manage stacks

---

## Common Patterns

### Transform Data on Receive

```tsx
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "tokens",
  views: {
    tokens: {
      list: createListView<Token>("Token/list", {
        transform: (raw) => ({
          ...raw,
          price: raw.virtual_sol_reserves / raw.virtual_token_reserves,
        }),
      }),
    },
  },
});
```

### Filter List Results

```tsx
const { data: recentTokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use({
  where: { created_at: { gte: Date.now() - 86400000 } },
  limit: 10,
});
```

### Handle Connection State

```tsx
import { useConnectionState } from "hyperstack-react";

function ConnectionStatus() {
  const state = useConnectionState();
  // state: 'disconnected' | 'connecting' | 'connected' | 'error' | 'reconnecting'
  return <div>Status: {state}</div>;
}
```

---

## Troubleshooting

| Issue                         | Solution                                                       |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| "WebSocket connection failed" | Check your `websocketUrl` is correct and the stack is deployed |
| Data not updating             | Verify the view path matches your stack entity name            |
| TypeScript errors             | Ensure your interface matches the stack's data shape           |

Commit message:

docs: add hyperstack-typescript as standalone package in documentation
Document the new hyperstack-typescript package as a framework-agnostic
alternative to hyperstack-react. Updates include:

- Restructured TypeScript SDK overview to cover both packages
- Added installation instructions for core SDK
- Added tabbed React/TypeScript examples in tutorials
- Clarified relationship between react and core packages
- Added guidance on choosing between SDKs

docs/src/content/docs/getting-started/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: React Quickstart
sidebar:
  order: 2
  badge: New
---

Get real-time Solana data streaming in your React app in 5 minutes.

:::tip[Not using React?]
For Vue, Svelte, Node.js, or vanilla JavaScript, use the [TypeScript Core SDK](/sdks/typescript/overview#typescript-core-sdk-hyperstack-typescript) instead.
:::

## What You'll Build

A React app that displays live data from a Solana program using Hyperstack's real-time streaming.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- A Hyperstack account ([sign up here](https://hyperstack.xyz))
- An existing Hyperstack stack deployed (or use a public demo)

---

## Step 1: Install the SDK

```bash
npm install hyperstack-react zustand react
```

**Peer dependencies:** `react ^18.0.0`, `zustand ^4.0.0`

---

## Step 2: Set Up the Provider

Wrap your app with `HyperstackProvider` to enable WebSocket connections:

```tsx
// src/main.tsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
import { HyperstackProvider } from "hyperstack-react";
import App from "./App";

ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root")!).render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <HyperstackProvider
      websocketUrl="wss://your-stack.stack.usehyperstack.com"
      autoConnect={true}
    >
      <App />
    </HyperstackProvider>
  </React.StrictMode>,
);
```

Replace `your-stack` with your deployed stack name, or use `ws://localhost:8080` for local development.

---

## Step 3: Define Your Stack

Create a stack definition that matches your deployed stack's entities:

```tsx
// src/stack.ts
import { defineStack, createListView, createStateView } from "hyperstack-react";

// Define types matching your stack entities
interface Token {
  mint: string;
  name?: string;
  symbol?: string;
  price?: number;
  totalTrades?: number;
}

// Define the stack
export const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "my-tokens",

  views: {
    tokens: {
      // List view: all entities as an array
      list: createListView<Token>("Token/list"),
      // State view: single entity by key
      state: createStateView<Token>("Token/state"),
    },
  },

  helpers: {
    formatPrice: (value: number) => `${value.toFixed(6)} SOL`,
  },
});
```

**View path format:** `{EntityName}/{mode}` where mode is `list` or `state`.

---

## Step 4: Use Your Stack in Components

```tsx
// src/App.tsx
import { useHyperstack } from "hyperstack-react";
import { TokenStack } from "./stack";

function TokenList() {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  // Subscribe to the token list - updates in real-time
  const { data: tokens, isLoading, error } = stack.views.tokens.list.use();

  if (isLoading) return <div>Connecting...</div>;
  if (error) return <div>Error: {error.message}</div>;

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Live Tokens ({tokens?.length || 0})</h1>
      {tokens?.map((token) => (
        <div key={token.mint}>
          <strong>{token.name || "Unknown"}</strong> ({token.symbol})
          {token.price && (
            <span> - {stack.helpers.formatPrice(token.price)}</span>
          )}
        </div>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
}

function TokenDetail({ mint }: { mint: string }) {
  const stack = useHyperstack(TokenStack);

  // Subscribe to a single token by key
  const { data: token } = stack.views.tokens.state.use({ key: mint });

  if (!token) return <div>Loading token...</div>;

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>{token.name}</h2>
      <p>Total trades: {token.totalTrades}</p>
    </div>
  );
}

export default function App() {
  return <TokenList />;
}
```

---

## Step 5: Run Your App

```bash
npm run dev
```

Your app now receives real-time updates whenever the on-chain data changes. No polling, no manual refreshes.

---

## What's Happening Under the Hood

1. **HyperstackProvider** establishes a WebSocket connection to your deployed stack
2. **useHyperstack** gives you access to your stack's views and helpers
3. **views.\*.use()** creates a subscription and returns reactive data
4. When on-chain data changes, Hyperstack pushes updates through the WebSocket
5. Your React components re-render automatically with the new data

---

## Next Steps

- [Creating Stacks](/stacks/overview) - Create custom data streams
- [Stack API Reference](/concepts/stack-api) - Full API documentation
- [CLI Commands](/cli/commands) - Deploy and manage stacks

---

## Common Patterns

### Transform Data on Receive

```tsx
const TokenStack = defineStack({
  name: "tokens",
  views: {
    tokens: {
      list: createListView<Token>("Token/list", {
        transform: (raw) => ({
          ...raw,
          price: raw.virtual_sol_reserves / raw.virtual_token_reserves,
        }),
      }),
    },
  },
});
```

### Filter List Results

```tsx
const { data: recentTokens } = stack.views.tokens.list.use({
  where: { created_at: { gte: Date.now() - 86400000 } },
  limit: 10,
});
```

### Handle Connection State

```tsx
import { useConnectionState } from "hyperstack-react";

function ConnectionStatus() {
  const state = useConnectionState();
  // state: 'disconnected' | 'connecting' | 'connected' | 'error' | 'reconnecting'
  return <div>Status: {state}</div>;
}
```

---

## Troubleshooting

| Issue                         | Solution                                                       |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| "WebSocket connection failed" | Check your `websocketUrl` is correct and the stack is deployed |
| Data not updating             | Verify the view path matches your stack entity name            |
| TypeScript errors             | Ensure your interface matches the stack's data shape           |
